CHAPTER I

What Is Atomic Energy?
I
In Answering this question let it be ever remembered that God is love,
and that this universe is founded upon love. Every action and its reaction
in Nature must be in balance with each other in order to carry out the
purposeful intent of the Creator.
Love expressed by action, means balanced fulfillment of its own law of
equal giving and regiving. That is the principle upon which this
purposeful universe is founded. That which purposefully fulfills the law is
GOOD. It will endure and be eternally repeated with more of that which
man calls GOOD. Every action of man, likewise, which is founded upon
love is a fulfillment of the law, and is GOOD—and will be eternally
repeated.
Our action in answering this momentous question is founded upon
love for the good of man. If it is purposeful it will bring GOOD into the
world for endless repetition, which is Nature's way of working. If it is not
balanced and orderly in Nature's way of normal growth of her Idea, then
that moment of its departure from the GOOD will bring about its own
dissolution. That is also Nature's way of dissolving that which is
unrhythmic and purposeless in the fulfilling of her One Law.
What is atomic energy? What is this great power which is now to
be used for the betterment of life? That is the question which the
whole world wants to know. It wants to know because there is great fear
in the heart of man that it should not be used, but he does not know why.
The only way he can know WHY radioactivity should not be used is to
know WHAT radioactivity IS—and what it will DO.
We will briefly state what it is and what it can do in one short
paragraph. We will then expand this one paragraph into this
3

4

ATOMIC SUICIDE?

whole book, for the purpose of giving you full comprehension of its
meaning. When you read that one paragraph, which now follows, bear in
mind the fact that the supreme effort of humanity is to learn how to live
long lives in full strength, and repeat them down through endless centuries.
Radiation is the normal death principle. Every thing in Nature
dies normally by slowly radiating its heat. Radioactivity is the
explosively

quick

death

principle.

Radioactivity

is

man's

discovery of how the human race can die quickly, and not be able
to propagate its kind for many long centuries.
There is your complete answer in a few words. MULTIPLIED
DEATH is the new boon which this age of man believes he is giving to
the furtherance of life. Naturally you do not understand it, but instinct
and intuition in you are strong enough to make you fear it. The reason
you do not understand it is because you are not yet aware of what makes
things live and what makes them die.
The entire answer to this supreme question lies in knowing exactly
WHAT MAKES BODIES LIVE and WHAT MAKES BODIES DIE.
This cannot be briefly told. In telling it we must tell you how God
constructs and dissolves matter electrically. If answered briefly you would
not comprehend it. The greatest minds among men have been trying to
discover this life principle for centuries. When we do fully answer it for
you and all mankind, you will also fully comprehend your universe and all
of its mysteries. The telling must be a step by step process, however, and
must keep in mind the purpose of this book, which is to dynamically
explain in convincing language, and undebatable postulates, that the price
man will pay for the use of atomic energy is his own inevitable extinction.
Nature has a tremendously balanced rhythmic normalcy in her orderly
processes of creation. It is all of it good for man and animal alike when
they observe that normalcy. When they defy it, or violate it through
ignorance of it, Nature does not punish them for that violation.
Ignorance punishes them. The discovery

What Is Atomic Energy?

5

of atomic energy as a means of obtaining greater heat than an orderly and
normal way suitable to environment, is as much a breach of Nature's
orderly processes as it would be if man violated the law of gravity by
discovering that he could get to the bottom of the canyon in a much
quicker way than the normal way. No man would do that because he
knows better. Atomic energy for industry is as great a violation of
Nature's way as a defiance of gravity would be. And it is as sure death for
the violator of one as of the other.
We know that man is not intentionally defying God's law. There is but
one other reason why he is doing it, which is that he does not know what
he is doing. The law works just as irrevocably, and inevitably, however,
against him who defies it, as it does for the one who does not know. Man
admittedly does not know what he is doing. For long ages he has sought
for the life principle in germ or ultimate unit of matter. He has never
found it there and never will. Likewise, he has sought for the principle of
death. This he has now found, but does not know it.
Do you know WHY you live and HOW you keep alive? Do you know
WHY you die and HOW you die? Do you know "where you go when you
die, or what happens to your identity after death?" No, you do not yet
know these things. Mankind has not yet unfolded far enough spiritually,
to know of his eternal Identity, or to know that he cannot die. The complete
argument of this story is based upon the fact that mankind does not know what either
life or death is, nor that the plan that he is now making is assisting Nature in her
death process by helping you to die instead of to live. That plan is contrary to
Nature's law of love. We shall tell you all you have wondered about
regarding life, death and immortality, so that you will comprehend the
magnitude of the crime of man against man, which man has now decided
to perpetrate.
Man does not yet know his universe, nor how it became, nor how it
disappears into space and reappears. There is a universal process in
Creation and a motivating force for the energy which creates it. That
same process applies as equally to the creation of "life," and its
disappearance in "death," in your body as it does

6

ATOMIC SUICIDE?

to the whole universe. Do you know what that process is? Do you know
what your universe is, and God's relation to IT—and to YOU? Do you
not think you could live more powerfully and wisely if you did know
these things? We feel certain that when statesmen and leaders in industry
know these things they will know they cannot use the death principle to
aid life.
Every forthcoming page of this book will deal with the principle of life
and death of the body of man, and of God's body—the universe of
motion. It will, likewise, deal with the immortality of man and of his
Mind-control over his orderly and normal life and death processes. It will
also clearly explain that long asked question: "Where do I go when I die?"
During this explanation of the two ways of life and death, which will
be clearly set forth herein, you cannot fail to see that man's illegitimate
use of DEATH to benefit life will but multiply death upon this planet
until not one grass blade will be left upon it. These statements present a
dread picture. They seem unbelievable and impossible. It is our
responsibility to prove to you that they are not only possible, but
inevitable. The only way we can possibly do that is to now make those
things known about life, death and immortality, which have never yet
been known.
II
The real fallacy of nuclear fission for industry is that these so-called
deadly poisonous gases from the radioactive elements in reactors, and in
the waste products, which are encased in concrete and buried in the sea
to protect human life from their admitted danger, are not poisons in their own
environment underground, where they are serving a necessary purpose of
helping to make it possible for organic life to live upon this planet. Man
makes them poisonous by removing them from their purposeful environment to place
them in an abnormal environment unsuited to their normal environment.
Animal and vegetable life are dependent upon the upper few feet of the
earth's crust to live. The soil must have humus, nitrogen, carbonic gas,
oxygen and water. These so-called deadly radioactive poisons are
preparing the soil for oxygen dependent

What Is Atomic Energy?

7

life to live by causing countless billions of microscopic explosions in the
rock formations underground to release water and other necessities for
human life and vegetation. That is all GOOD. In their proper place in
Nature they are fulfilling their necessary useful purposes. They are vitally
necessary where they are. They are of benefit to man when underground
or distributed in rocks. It is only when we dig them out from under the ground
and condense tons of harmless rock to ounces of deadly free metal, such as uranium
piles, that we make the earth uninhabitable for man.
Think also of the hundreds of millions of years Nature has to work to
decay solid rock and metal planets sufficiently to create enough decayed
surface, and an atmosphere, for organic life to become possible. Mercury
has no atmosphere, nor even a grass blade. Its rock surface is so hot that
lead would melt there. Venus is also hot rock but a soil has begun there,
and water is probably there now, but only as steam vapor, for the
temperature on Venus is higher than boiling point. Our earth has had a
soil and atmosphere sufficient for simple forms of life, ever since it
reached its seventy or eighty million mile mark from the sun. The
radioactive metals made that possible. They belong underground just as
dead animal bodies belong underground. Radioactive metals are dead and
dying bodies. That is what is not yet known of them. There are twenty-two
of them which are killer metals if we take them away from their rock
environment underground in Nature and make them a part of man's
environment above ground.
There are many metals which will not hurt you, such as iron, copper,
gold, silver and many others. This we will clarify in the next chapter in
relation to Fig. 5. You can live among thousands of living men without
being poisoned, but you cannot live upon the breath of living men
without dying from their poison. You cannot in fact, live upon your own
outbreathings. You would soon die from your own poison. Digging dead
and dying metals from underground where their outbreathing is giving
fertile soil for organic life, is like digging dead animals from where they
are being transformed into living vegetable and animal life. Every

8

ATOMIC SUICIDE?

farmer must put death under his ground in order to reap life above it.
The Curies procured a few grams of radium from many tons of earth.
Those few grams of dead metals would spread their quick death to every
cell of your body if you put them in your pocket, but they would not
harm you in the slightest if you slept upon the ground above them. The
radioactive metals are giving out their quick death to the rocks in which
they are embedded for the purpose of expanding the rocks into the soil
and water which mothers life. It should not be dug up from the ground to expand
human beings into quick death. If you would have a good example of their
purpose in life, which is beneficial to humanity, witness the great bare
rock mountains of the west which are only a few million years old.
Compare them with soil covered, tree covered, very much older eastern
mountains, such as the Blue Ridge, White Mountains and Catskills where
the soil is deep above them and waterfalls and brooks are abundant.
Water and soil are decayed and dying rock. They are, literally, dead
rocks. Out of death in Nature life springs, and when life above ground is
dead it gives new life to the death of earth. These are the things which
mankind must know. It knows too little about life and death, and how each one
interchanges with the other to make death live and make life die. This is so fundamental a part of the process of Nature that you would be very much
more interested in her whole processes if you would but give more
thought to this one. Take note, for example, that the moment a peach in
the dish on your table becomes over ripe you will see fruit flies hovering
over it. They were born from it, and other less complex life forms were
born from it before that, just as millions of microbes and other primitive
life forms are born in your living body, and more complex ones will be
born from your dead body. You do not realize that all of your body is not wholly
alive all the time. Part of you is always dead or dying, up to your maturity. After
that all of them are slowly dying. The millions of microbes which await more
full life in you are harmless to you while you can charge your body
sufficiently to insulate your life from their death. About two pounds of
your body dies

What Is Atomic Energy?

9

every day, and the millions of dead bodies which are in that two pounds
would kill your live body if you took them back into your metabolism
again. Have you ever thought of that? Great cities must have great sanitation
departments to guard against just that.
Have you ever thought that your every inbreath charges you with power to
live, and every outbreath is death? That means that you are perpetually
living and dying thirty or forty times a minute. More amazing still —if you
will but give deep thought to it—is the fact that whatever lives in you is
not a poison to you, but whatever of your own body which does not live
will poison you. You breathe in living oxygen which comes to you from
the earth and its foliage. It dies in you and you breathe out a deadly
poison known as carbon dioxide. That carbon dioxide is not poison to
the ground, however. It is food to the ground. The earth breathes in that
food and breathes it out as oxygen, which is poison to it but life to you.
Have you ever thought of that? Have you ever thought that the water you
drink, the air you breathe, and the food you eat, comes from the dead and
decaying body of this planet, and that every living body which dies and is
returned to the earth, recharges the earth with renewed life? You
probably have never given this a thought. We ask you to do so now, in
order that you will more fully understand this next step in your
understanding of life, death and immortality, in addition to beginning to
know your universe.
This is your next step. We have pictured your simultaneously livingdying body. You must now know that all bodies in all the universe are the
same in all respects, whether they are electrons, cells, rocks, metals, trees,
men, planets or suns. All of them live and die in the same manner. All
breathe in the charging breath of life and breathe out the discharging
breath of death. All of them compress heat and polarize when they
breathe in, and expand, cool and depolarize when they breathe out.
Why is this? It is because all bodies are made of—and by—electric
waves, and every characteristic of the electric current is a life and death
alternation. The entirety of Creation lives and dies in sequences. With this
thought in mind consider the body of this earth in the same way that you
would consider your own

10

ATOMIC SUICIDE?

FIG. 3. JUPITER and MARS.

What Is Atomic Energy?

11

FIG. 4. SATURN.

body. Parts of the earth's body are dead, and other parts are dying, just as
parts of your body are dead and others are dying. Just as the slight decay
of an over ripe peach will not hurt you, while a fully decayed one might
kill you, so, likewise, the "over ripe" chemical elements of the earth,
which are not too far from carbon will not hurt you, while the farther
they are beyond carbon the more deadly they become, and the more
impossible it is to guard yourself from their quick death. See Fig. 5. This
is the lesson of life and death which you must first know. Step by step
you will know its whole process. You will then be ready to know "where
you go after you die," and fully comprehend it.
Now think of the life and death of a planet as you would think of the
life and death of your own body. You fully know that your own body
grows to maturity—say at forty—when it is more virile than at any other
age. That means that every cell in your body is more virile than that same
cell could be at sixty, or eighty. At forty your body cells are true spheres
and small, fast turning rings. At sixty the cells have become very much
flattened at their poles as our earth is doing, and their surfaces are
beginning to wrinkle with many rings, like Jupiter, just as an old face
wrinkles with many lines. At eighty rings are actually thrown off at equa -

12

ATOMIC SUICIDE?

tors, like the rings of Saturn. These rings are dead cells of Saturn's still
living body. An old man of ninety is still living but all of his cells are
dying faster than he can replace them. This is an important fact for you
to understand. Your car battery will help you comprehend the whole
principle of the long slow years of dying. When it is charging while you
are running it, that shows that its power to generate life is greater than its
power to degenerate by discharge. The old age of anything, whether man,
electron or planet, means that the galvanometer needle of its life current
is showing more discharge than charge, even though it is charging some.
We herein print pictures of Mars, Jupiter and Saturn to illustrate three
such stages of slow dying. They are all of them generating life from the
pressures of the sun, but they are dying faster than they can live. See Figs.
3 and 4.
The earth is a dying cell thrown off from the sun. It cannot maintain
its spherical form. It is flattening at the poles and cannot keep in balance
with its system by remaining on the plane of the sun's equator. It is in the
very early stages of preparing to throw off more rings such as its first one
which has wound up to become a moon. The growth of deserts around
its equator is the first early stage of that period. Mars has grown very
much older. It still has water but oxygen dependent life is nearing its end
upon it. Deserts take up a large area of it and it is more oblate than the
earth.
For a good example of old age witness the wrinkled, expanded, oblate
body of Jupiter. It has thrown off many rings, and is preparing to throw
off more. Nature always throws off its rings in series of four. Near the
surface of Jupiter you will see one series which have wound up into
moons. Mercury, Venus, Earth and Mars are the last series thrown off by
our sun. Jupiter has expanded to probably three or four times its original
size, and is whirling itself to its centrifugal death with ever increasing
acceleration. In the still more oblate Saturn you see three of its next
series of rings before they have wound up around a newly established
gravitative center. This study of the way planets and suns die will clearly
illustrate to you how your body dies.

What Is Atomic Energy?

13

The above thoughts have been given you for the express purpose of building up in
you a full comprehension that man is now attempting to build an environment of
death upon the surface of this planet, which has for so many aeons been trying to
build up an environment for life. He is creating an abnormal environment within
which animal and vegetable life cannot possibly live. We desire to show you why
radioactive fission, in large quantities, and oxygen cannot co -exist. These elements are
fully alive while in their own environment. By taking them out from that environment
they become corpses of themselves. To spread these huge ten ton reactor corpses
throughout the world, and the countless billions of microscopic ones, so that they are in
every breath we breathe, every bit of food we eat and in the water we drink, will
eventually be like forcing you to again breathe in a gradually increasing percentage of
your own dead breath.
III
From now on we must talk very much about FLAME, in respect to
radioactivity and death. Flame is the ultimate of Creation. It is both
maximum life and maximum death. Its radiation will beget life but its
body will consume it. The maturity of all Creation itself is expressed in
flaming suns. Suns are incandescent carbon. Carbon is frozen flame.
Flame is one point of pressure beyond the maximum compression which
a body will stand. Flame is the effect of the explosion which releases the
compression at that ultimate point. Compression heats. Flame is maximum
heat.
Life cannot live without heat. It is created by heat and must have it.
Radiation gives you that heat. It is good for you. It warms you to a
normalcy of temperature. It expands your body cells in perfect
attunement with their compression sequences. It synchronizes with the
rhythms of your breathings and your pulse beat.
Radioactivity gives you more heat than you can stand. It sends millions of
alpha ray bullets into your body which accumulate there all of your life
and raise your temperature, readjusting your entire metabolism until your
body cells explode from their accumulated heat and expand beyond their
normalcy. The slightest change in your heat abnormalcy gives you a fever.
A fever

14

ATOMIC SUICIDE?

means too much heat. It means expanded body cells and red blood
corpuscles. Even too much heat from the sun will do that. You cannot
expose yourself to its life giving rays too long else they become death
giving rays. This idea you must also give much thought to, for your
environment demands a proper amount of heat, which will become
impossible when your present normal environment is made abnormal by
countless billions of alpha and niton rays, which will bombard you
constantly and show their effects in leukemia, bone cancer, deformed
children and many other effects until you die by slow expansion. A
"lethal dose" of radium gases will quicken that expansion.
All things die from heat expansion. That is the only way any body can
die, whether it is your body, or the sun's body. All things in Nature die
normally by slow expansion. Radioactivity is multiplied expansion, which is caused
by multiplied compression. It helps man die from explosively quick expansion. Flame
is caused by maximum compression. Flame is the ultimate consumer of all bodies. If
you will but bear this fact in mind as we proceed you will more readily
comprehend WHY and HOW this planet will soon become a barren
waste if radioactivity is widely used. You will also comprehend WHY and
HOW man can explode this planet into millions of fragments, or make it
become a partially exploding body, which we call a nova in the heavens.
Do not for a moment think that planets and suns cannot explode. They are
continually exploding. There are thousands of novas in the heavens and
space is filled with countless millions of fragments of exploded planets,
which we call asteroids and meteorites. These are irregular shaped lumps.
Nature does not create her forms in lumps. She creates only rings and
spheres which she crystallizes into geometric forms, but they must first
be rings and spheres.
The one amazing thing about all matter, which is not known today, is that
all matter wants to explode, it wants to die. To live, is an effort. To die is
effortless. Matter is not held together from within by the attraction of gravity, as
generally supposed, it is compressed together by a force exerted from the outside toward
its center. Life is hard to maintain, for that reason, and for the

What Is Atomic Energy?

15

same reason it is easy to die because it wants to die. You must understand
this fact if you wish to comprehend how radioactivity kills. It is against all
modern scientific belief, because the general belief is that a material
nucleus holds the atom together. Nature does not work that way. Atoms
do not have nuclei. Nature creates her atoms the same way that you would
compress air into a tire. It is hard work. You pump it in from the outside
toward its middle. Then you put a cap on it to imprison it. If it is not
sealed and imprisoned it would escape without effort by you. It does not
need help to expand. It only needs help to be compressed.
Matter is an abnormality. The normality of this universe is a condition of
rest—an equilibrium. Matter is not an equilibrium. It is a created condition
which divides a resistant equilibrium. That division results in tremendous
tensions. Tensions are not normal to the universal equilibrium. Tensions
have within them a great desire for relief from tension. Decay, death,
discharge, explosions and flame give matter that relief from tensions
which it desires. Bear this fact in mind. Remember that the first desire of
all Creation is Mind-expression by division of the universal equilibrium.
Remember also that the desire to again return to the normal universal
equilibrium is equally intensive. To divide an equilibrium requires work.
To return to the normality of the universal equilibrium does not require
work. Bear in mind, then, that it is hard to live but easy to die.
Radioactivity is making it harder for bodies to live by releasing the
tensions which makes them die.
Later in this book you will find that every atom is exactly like your tire.
It is an electrically compressed ring with a hole in it. See Fig. 41. Nature
has to seal her compressed rings to imprison that compression, just as
you do, but the cap she uses to seal them is the eternal cold of space
which encases every one of them with a frozen crust. That keeps the heat
sealed inside, as it does to our earth. It seems strange to speak of the
frozen crust of the sun, but it is frozen, nevertheless, otherwise the sun
would explode.
All atoms are single units. All of these single units combine, in every
octave, to make spiral atomic systems like the nebulae

16

ATOMIC SUICIDE?

of space, or carbon in an octave, or a loop of force in an electric current.
All atomic rings collide to unite four pairs of them into one sphere. See
Fig. 29. This you will understand later in detail, but an understanding of
the essence of it now will help you to comprehend the quick death
principle by means of which radioactivity lets imprisoned matter escape
suddenly, just as a spark lets imprisoned dynamite escape suddenly.
The special reason you should begin to understand the essence of it
now is because it is against all scientific tradition and concept. It will be
proven to you all through this book, however, for our whole case rests
upon it. If present day belief is right in its concept that the atom is held
together from the inside, then we have no case, and these writings are
worthless. If we are right in our knowledge that all matter is a powder keg which is
intensely desirous of being released from its forced imprisonment, and needs only the
right kind of match to explode it, you can then see that radioactive fission is that
match, and these writings are priceless saviours of the race.
It only stands to reason, therefore, that if every cell in your body wants
to explode, and that radioactivity releases millions upon millions of
deadly niton and alpha "matches" in our atmosphere, which will help
your body cells to explode, and you breathe in enough of them, you could
no more continue to live than your tire could hold its air if you open its
valve. This actually happened in a laboratory where some radioactive gas
escaped and a man breathed it in. It was said of him that he had a lethal
dose and could not live. Of course he could not live, nor can the whole human race
and the earth's vegetation live when microscopic strontium, barium, radium and
plutonium "matches" by the millions are in all the water you drink, all the food you
eat, and in every breath you take. Some of your cells will constantly explode.
Strontium will give you bone cancer and make you breed terribly
abnormal children. Radium and plutonium will kill you by eating your red
blood cells and causing leukemia victims by the millions. We will give you
the detailed reasons for this as we proceed, but we do not need to tell you
what cyanide of potassium will do to you, for you know. Nor do we need
to

What Is Atomic Energy?

17

tell you what chlorine, the most deadly gas which laboratories fear, will
do to you, for you know. What then can plutonium rays do to you? Dr.
Ralph E. Lapp, a noted authority, tells us that they are a million times
more deadly than chlorine gas, which every laboratory dreads. Also, what
can it do to the planet? Its rays are said to endure for 20,000 years. It is
quite possible that the earth could remain barren that long, or very much
longer. Organic life would have to "evolve" again, from its beginning.
That could really happen if thousands of reactors were scattered all
over the world, for each reactor has a uranium pile of ten tons. That
means that thousands of Frankensteins would be in our midst against
which we are helpless. We could not even approach them to destroy
them. Naturally that could not happen, for mankind would discover his
great error long before the country could be dotted with plants, but it is
more than probable that enough would be constructed, and their shields
become as dangerous as they themselves are, to cause wholesale migrations to far northern latitudes for very survival. Great cities would
become deserted and tens of millions would die from polluted food,
water and air. The primeval life which would necessarily become
imperative for the small number of survivors in the then temperate
climate of the north and south poles, would set civilization back for many
thousands of years, for life would be utterly impossible within a thousand
miles of naked reactor plutonium piles.
One of the greatest errors in reactor construction is the use of
aluminum tubes for uranium containers. Aluminum would become
charged with radioactive death very quickly in comparison with silver,
gold or any other metal on the blue side of the spectrum. Steel is on the
red side, but its density is so much greater than aluminum that it is a
better metal than aluminum for that purpose. Nickel would be better than
steel, for nickel is on the blue side. The idea of constructing shields of
any material at all, for protection against uranium and plutonium is only a
temporary expedient. The time will come when the shields will be as
dangerous as the cores. It is impossible to be otherwise. The time
element may be long, but when that time comes, the greatest mi-

18

ATOMIC SUICIDE?

gration history has ever known will take place, and its road will be paved
with millions of dead, largely from leukemia which will rapidly increase
until it becomes a scourge.
The element of surprise which could delay the discovery of the great
danger, and thus allow more plutonium piles to come into existence, is
the fact that scientists are looking near the ground for fall-out dangers
and other radioactive menaces. The greatest radioactive dangers are accumulating
from eight to twelve miles up. This seems to be ignored. The upper atmosphere is
already charged with death dealing radioactivity for which it has not yet sent us its
bill. It is slowly coming, however, and we will have to pay for it for another century,
even if atomic energy plans ceased today. That is why it is possible to have many
reactors in use before discovering it is too late to stop building them. It
would be impossible to destroy them for they could not be approached.
Plutonium and uranium piles cannot be destroyed in any other way than
by redistributing them the way Nature does. As that is utterly impossible,
the only recourse left to man is to flee from them and let the centuries
renormalize the earth made barren by man.
Let us quote Britain's Manchester Guardian Weekly of May, 1956, in
relation to the heavy price we will soon pay from the upper atmosphere
fall-out to earth: "Since records have been kept the amount of radio strontium which has fallen out on Britain has multiplied six times. In
1948 radioactivity, to roughly two-thousandths of a gram of radium, had
fallen out on each square mile of countryside. Since then the rate of
deposition has increased, and now the equivalent of nearly six thousandths of a gram of radium are settling each year. And there is
plenty more of it to come. . . . The concentration of radioactivity eight
miles up is some 200 times greater than it is at ground level. Between 10
per cent and 20 per cent of this is thought to settle upon the earth each
year."
We know that you are wondering WHY these radioactive elements will
so violently kill when others will not hurt you. We will answer this
question very explicitly for you but for the present our answer is that they
will not kill if left where Nature put

What Is Atomic Energy?

19

them to perform the beneficial service intended of them. They are all good in their
place, in fact they help to create the very water you drink and make
humus for the soil, which gives you food. God's whole plan is good.
When man upsets that plan he makes for himself that which he calls
"bad."
Let us give you an example of our meaning. It is good and healthful for
you to sit upon a great granite boulder with the sun shining warmly upon
you. All of its radiations are good, for they are in normal balance with the
pulsation frequencies of every cell in your body. Now if you "bombard"
that 100 ton boulder and take it all apart, you will obtain fourteen ounces
of uranium and two pounds of thorium. If you then sit upon that you will
soon die from the explosions caused in your body cells. You can also
procure other metals which will not hurt you from that boulder. You can
obtain 1,000 pounds of titanium, 180 pounds of manganese, 70 pounds
of chromium, 40 pounds of nickel, 10 pounds of tungsten, 5 tons of iron
and 8 tons of aluminum. The reason WHY these tons of metals will not
hurt you, and WHY the few ounces of thorium and uranium WILL hurt
you, is the reason why it is now necessary to know the relation of LIFE
and DEATH of organic bodies, to the elements of matter of which they
are composed.
For this reason we again repeat the great simple basic fact that all death is
caused by expansion, and all life is caused by compression. We also repeat the as
yet unknown fact that life deeply desires to live, but has to work hard to
keep sufficiently charged to maintain life, while death can fulfill its desire
to die without effort. To charge a body with life takes time and much
effort, but a discharge can be timeless and without effort. The flash of a
short circuit is not only a good example of this fact but is a demonstration of
its proof. If you will but submit this new thought to your reasoning you
will see the naturalness, and significance of it. Death means rest, or
cessation of motion. Sound is motion created with an effort, but it ceases
without effort. It is an effort for you to arise and work, but it is no effort
for you to cease working and rest. It is an effort to heat a rod of iron but
the rod will cool without effort. You must, therefore, realize that

20

ATOMIC SUICIDE?

all things will die normally and naturally without help. That is what
radiation is. Multiplied expansion means helping matter to expand quickly, and that
is what radioactivity is. The use of nuclear fission, therefore, vastly multiplies the
difficulty of living things to keep alive, by vastly aiding them to die.
The mystery which we will clarify in this book is to tell how man can be master of
life through knowledge, instead of letting death master him through ignorance. The
first essential in knowing how to gain this control is to first realize the
profundity of the basic facts above stated, and relegate all cause of
normal death to normal expansion, and all quick death to abnormal expansion. Add other details to this afterward. Do not say that he died of
arsenic poisoning, for there is no poison in the purposeful things of
Nature, which must fulfill their purposes. He died of abnormal expansion due
to contacting a higher voltage electric current than his body could stand. That was the
cause of his death. It was radioactive electrocution, not poisoning.
This example will apply to all radioactive effects which we shall
describe herein. The lethal dose of radioactive emanation which killed the
laboratory worker heretofore mentioned, was not a poison, nor was it a
chemical death. He died by electrocution, slow electrocution which
consumed two weeks of time to slowly expand enough to kill. As our last
word, before taking the next simple step in our clarification, let us remind
you that this universe of motion is entirely electrical. Every effect of any
nature, whatsoever, is basically electric. Whatever happens in any way
stems from the electric current. To know just one wave unit of the electric
current is to know all there is of the construction of matter, or the cause of any effect
of motion, whatsoever.
We tell our students constantly that the secret of Creation lies in the
octave wave, therefore, know the wave. We, likewise, tell our students
who are doctors, or chemists, lawyers, metallurgists, astronomers or
inventors, that they must first be electricians. We, likewise, say the same
thing to the humanist, poet or missionary. First be an electrician. Know
the electric current if you wish to control people, matter, or your destiny.
The chemist and musician make use of the same octave tonal scale, and
the clergyman

What Is Atomic Energy?

21

who knows its rhythms is vastly more fitted to balance human problems.
We say to all men in all professions, and all walks of life, from the
statesman to him who wields a hoe: "If you would know your universe of
motion, your relation to it and your control over it, first thoroughly know
just one cycle of an electric current and the still fulcrum from which it
has its being."
THE SUPREME MYSTERY OF LIFE AND
DEATH
We shall now write for you what seems like an insoluble paradox, or an
impossibility of Nature, but it is a fundamental, nevertheless. Please carve
it indelibly upon your consciousness now, and await its gradual
comprehension as other unknown fundamentals of Nature will be
gradually revealed to you herein. It is as follows:
All material bodies, organic and inorganic, live and grow by
increasingly fast motion. They also die and decay by increasingly
fast motion.
This eternal fact of Nature has always stared man in the face very
conspicuously, without having been seen. Even so great a thinker and
observer as Albert Einstein passed it by when he wrote his equation of
1905, which states that fast motion multiplies electric potential. That fact
of Nature is true, but as it is equally true that fast motion divides potential
his whole equation is invalid as a law, for a half truth which voids itself
cannot become an eternal law.
It is not to be wondered at that this fact of Nature escaped observation
by the senses, for man is so accustomed to the fact that effects disappear
through slow motion, and that death is consummated by cessation of
motion. The senses are not to be trusted, however. When you fully
understand the above postulate you will also understand the incredible
death speed of plutonium radiations which are approximately 170,000
miles per second.
The fastest speed of Nature is 186,400 miles per second. That is the
generoactive speed in which light waves reproduce to

22

ATOMIC SUICIDE?

create living bodies of matter. In the creation of matter the generoactive,
polarizing, centripetal speed which multiplies to create solids, begins with
zero at the first octave and reaches its maximum generoactive speed of
186,400 miles per second at carbon, which is the maturity of Creation.
This is the increasingly fast speed which multiplies potential. It is centripetal. From
there it begins its radioactive, depolarizing, centrifugal speed at zero and
reaches 186,400 miles per second, just beyond plutonium at the amplitude
point of the 9th octave wave. This is the increasingly fast speed which divides
potential to assist matter to die. It is, centrifugal. Up to nearly that point the
word fusion has taken the place of combustion, but beyond it the speed of
death is so great that the word fission has been coined to meet it. The
speed of flame by fission causes one short circuit in about one hundred
millionth of a second. Its actual speed could be computed by dividing the
speed of light into the time it takes for one wave frequency.
Thus we end another lesson in unfolding your comprehension to the
meaning of multiplied death before again opening new doors for still
greater comprehension of the true nature of our universe.
IV
SUMMARY
New thinking is very difficult. We will make it easier to comprehend by
telling it simply and in easy stages. As a first step in this direction you
must know that life in a man's body is exactly the same as life in your car
battery. As long as its electrical charge exceeds its discharge it lives and
grows with increasing vitality. When its discharge exceeds its charge it
loses its vitality and slowly dies. This is as true of a flower as of a man, or
atom, or flaming sun.
We again repeat the fact that all things live and grow because of their
ability to generate enough heat to charge their bodies with their normal
voltage, and no more. Each living body has a normal temperature and
pulsation frequency which must be constant in order to live and grow.
Death begins with the slightest

What Is Atomic Energy?

23

upset of that normalcy. Even one degree of extra heat beyond 98.6 will
upset the entire metabolism of man. That one degree of fever is one fifth
of his way to death. That is equally true of everything. Our planet already
has one degree of fever, caused by radioactivity. That one degree has already
upset the earth's metabolism enough to cause many fishes in the seas to
migrate into colder waters. It is causing ice caps and glaciers to melt. Ten
more degrees of radioactive fever will make of this planet a barren waste.
All things which die and decay do so because of their inability to continue
the electric strain of compression sufficiently to preserve their normalcy.
All living bodies compress. All dying bodies expand. This should not be a
difficult first lesson upon life and death, for compression and expansion
are the only two effects of motion and force in all this universe. Also, all
things in it are eternally compressing and expanding in alternate
sequences, forever. Your heart beat, your breathing, and the pulsations of
every cell in your body are continually compressing and expanding in
orderly ordained normal rhythms, each unit having its own normalcy of
rhythmic frequencies, and each one being not only in balance with the
whole, but also in balance with its normal environment.
Consider a living man, in his normal environment of temperatures and
pressures, being subjected to an electric pulsation frequency of a 10,000
volt current. That tremendous abnormalcy expands every cell in his body
so suddenly that they violently explode. All expanding bodies are always
exploding slowly, over long periods of time. We do not use that word for
slow expansion, however. We do not say that a decaying tree, which takes
fifty years to go back into the ground, is exploding. If you burn it,
however, the flame is a series of quick explosions which will do in two
hours what Nature intended should take fifty years.
Consider your car battery in the same way. If small wires are used the
charge in your battery explodes slowly. You can drive hundreds of miles
because of those slow gradual explosions which gradually discharge your
battery. If, however, you connect both poles with a large wire and touch
the ends together you discharge

24

ATOMIC SUICIDE?

the whole battery instantly. A brilliant flash of intensely hot flame
appears from an environment which was cold. That is what radioactivity
is. It multiplies the frequencies of slow, invisible radiation to fast visible radioactive
fusion.
If, for another example, you wind a tungsten wire with silk, then pass a
hundred thousand volt current through it in a vacuum tube, you will see a
brilliant white flash of intensely white hot light which lasts for only about
one millionth of a second. That light is so hot that it instantly explodes
the tungsten. Nothing but helium gas remains in the tube. Also those
radioactively multiplied voltage frequencies are so quick that the silk
thread has not been even singed.
Fix in your mind the primary fact that flame and radioactivity are one.
Flame is quick death always. Coal dies slowly by slow loss of heat while in
the ground. It takes thousands of years to radiate itself away, while flame
does it in an hour. If you multiply the frequencies of flame you are,
likewise, multiplying its power to quicken the death of anything. A
sulphur match will not produce a hot flame. It will burn wood slowly but it
will not set iron on fire. The hotter flame of the acetylene torch will set
iron on fire, however, but it will not set granite or concrete on fire. If you
multiply the radioactive power of flame still more, by making an
oxyacetylene flame, you can then electrocute granite or concrete. It will
burst into flame and slowly disappear.
These great radioactive heat and multiplied frequencies are nothing,
however, as compared to the intense heat which nuclear fission produces
with plutonium, barium, radium and other radioactively explosive
elements. They are a far cry from the flame power produced by the
sulphur match. These elements have made a match for man which has
produced a heat so great, and so quickly, that it has utterly destroyed
millions of tons of rock deep down in an island and vaporized other
millions of tons of sea water in a millionth of a second. The heat thus so
timelessly generated is greater than the hottest part of our sun. That is
what we mean by describing radioactivity as quick death.
If it could be possible to transport a hundred ton lump of the sun to
our earth it would drop through it as readily as a bullet

What Is Atomic Energy?

25

penetrates the atmosphere. Call it radioactivity, fission, fusion or what
you will, its principle in Nature is the release of a frozen body from its
imprisonment by releasing its binding tensions. It is the relaxing principle
of Nature. It is the restoration of tense matter to its Natural state of
equilibrium.

CHAPTER II

How Radioactivity Kills
I
As we sit in meditation by our fireside let our imaginations wander a bit.
Here we sit in perfect comfort. Our room is warm. We can go to bed
when we wish and sleep in comfort all night. We are not hungry. We have
good bodies. Our temperatures are 98.6—as they should be. Our pulses
are normal—as they should be. Everything about us is normal. We can
get up in the morning, have breakfast, go to town in a ready waiting car,
and plan our day's work and evening's relaxation without fear of
interference, because everything outside our home is as normal as it is at
home. That is what you want, is it not? Is not that what all civilization is
striving for? Is it not a fact that human happiness, health, safety,
prosperity and all things worthwhile depend upon the normalcy of our
environment and our human relations?
Our temperature could not remain at 98.6 if this planet could be
pushed five million miles nearer to the sun. Our temperature would rise.
We would have a fever of several points. Naturally that could not be
done, but its equivalent could be done by the use of radioactive fission.
Our normal life could quite easily be made unhappy and dangerous if the
town's water supply became polluted, or a hundred other things which
could happen to you in your home, or to the town or nation, which
would upset your normalcy.
Epidemics of typhus, polio, smallpox, and many other things have
upset the normal growth of individuals and nations. Two thirds of middle
Europe were wiped out by bubonic plague. A war tomorrow might draft
you out of your comfortable home, your bed, your work and your
relaxation. Your own desired nor26

How Radioactivity Kills

27

FIG. 5. The nine octaves of matter. This electric universe is a harp of nine wave
strings. It produces matter by the vibration of its strings, exactly as a harp
produces sounds. Different “substances” and different “sounds” are analogous.
All matter consists of tonal vibrations. Matter is not substance.

28

ATOMIC SUICIDE?

malcy can be ended in a flash, and an abnormalcy take its place, which
you do not desire. Instead of a happy Hungarian family and comfortable
home of this minute, some are dead, and some are in prison, or exiled to
Siberia in the next hour. This is true, is it not? It is quite a familiar picture
to the whole world, and not one person in all the world remains
untouched by the abnormalities which have upset the great orderly
rhythmic growth which Nature intends for all creating things, and will
give to them if they cooperate with Nature in keeping that normal rhythm
of her orderly unfolding of all creating things.
Normalcy of environment is a necessity of all Creation. Eidelweis will
not grow in a valley. No one would attempt to raise tropic fruits in
Canada, nor could polar bears survive in Florida. If you knew that certain
actions of man would so change the normalcy of your environment that it
would cause an epidemic of bubonic plague, would you not rise en masse
with your neighbors to prevent it? Of course you would. Bubonic plague
would be a mild and transient effect as compared with what is now being
planned for the human race, for many would survive it, and future
centuries would forget it. Not so with radioactive fission, however, for none would
survive to forget it. We wish to demonstrate and explain to you why oxygen
dependent vegetable and animal life could not again appear upon this
earth for twenty to thirty thousand years if man's plan is consummated.
II
It will be interesting and enlightening to again use your imagination
regarding your comfortable and safe position in the universal house of
the human race and other organic life. To aid the picturing of the
position of organic life in this universe we are printing a map of the
entirety of Creation for you to see it as a whole.
Figure 5 tells that whole story of Creation, and your safe house within
its dangerous surroundings, which we will point out to you later. That
safe house of yours in our universe is indicated by a triangle which
bounds its walls of safety. You will see it right near the middle of the
map. That triangle is the limit of

How Radioactivity Kills

29

your safe environment. Beyond it you cannot go for there are twenty-two
vicious killers in the far reaches of the environment which surrounds
your house, which you cannot see. You need have no fear of them,
however, for Nature has chained them very securely so that they cannot
hurt you while so securely imprisoned. Man is planning to alter Nature's plan,
however, and release them into your environment, even within your very house. These
killers are the invisible metallic death rays which penetrate every cell of
your body with ultra-microscopic poison metal bullets at speeds of
around 160,000 miles per second.
These killer metals which are soon to multiply to uncountable millions,
will await you in your drinking water, which will be polluted from
underground over the whole region of atomic activities, from buried
atomic waste. They will await you in your food, for every grass blade will
take it into the beef you eat and the milk you drink. They will also await
you in every breath you take, for miles of it will accumulate in the upper
atmosphere to fall upon the earth increasingly, year by year. Do not find
comfort in assurance that you can be protected from it. We will consider
that later, but you can no more be protected from it than you could protect the
dryness of earth from becoming wet when it rains. Neither can this planet be protected
from the rise in its whole temperature, which alone would so change the earth's en vironment that all life would be impossible.
III
The universe might very appropriately be likened to a harp of nine
strings, with nine tones in each string. In our diagram the strings are all
indicated as of the same length for simplicity. In Nature the lower string
is the longest. They grow gradually shorter up to the 9th. Likewise, the
tonal positions and frequencies change in each string. In every case each
note on each string is one octave higher than its next lower string. You
will note that each string begins with a zero and ends with a zero. These
are the key notes of each octave. They are the cathodes of every electric
anode. They are called inert gases, such as helium, neon, argon, krypton,
etc. They are the seed of all matter and

30

ATOMIC SUICIDE?

the supreme mystery of matter. In them is the answer to the great mystery of
life and death, which shall be deferred for full explanation in Chapter 11
of this book, after preparation for its comprehension in the pages which
intervene.
Perhaps you may better understand our meaning by a study of your
piano keyboard. There are only seven tones there. Each eighth tone is the
same as the beginning note, except it is one octave higher. The reason for
that change is due entirely to pressure mathematics. Compression
pressure has reached a position where the vibration frequencies have
multiplied in cube ratio. If you put a book upon the top of an organ pipe
you will find that its tone will jump to just one octave higher.
Like the low tones of a harp the low spectrum tones on the Cosmic
harp are of so few frequencies that they cannot even be perceived by
human senses until the third string is reached. Up to 1926 only one of
these tones had been perceived, but at that time the Russell Charts
numbered 1 and 2 in the Introduction, were published, which completed
all of the octave tones of that third octave. Also, up to the issuance of the
Russell Charts in 1926, the chart then in use was known as The
Mendeleéf Table of the elements. In that chart hydrogen was the only
element shown in that otherwise empty third octave, an impossibility in
Nature which creates all units in pairs, and all octaves in four pairs. The
Russell Charts complete this deficiency. Also, hydrogen, and its octave, were
shown without an inert gas preceding it. This is as impossible in Nature
as the growing of a tree without a seed is impossible. Also hydrogen was
placed in the first column instead of the fourth column under carbon.
Hydrogen has never been suspected as being carbon, one octave lower, as
silicon is also carbon, one octave higher.
The reason that each succeeding tonal note, which constitutes the
elements of matter, are one octave higher is one entirely of increased
pressure. You can better understand that by compressing some air in an
enclosed box or tube in which you have inserted a whistle. The more air
you pump in, the higher the whistle will sound when you open its valve.
If you tighten a wire the same thing will happen. The same harp string
can give you many

How Radioactivity Kills

31

tones if you turn the tuning pins higher, or lower. By the time the first
octave string has multiplied in cube ratio nine times, the speed of
vibration frequencies and intensity of pressure have reached the
incredible proportions of 1,073,741,824 times greater in the 9th string
than the first string.
You can better imagine the tremendous explosive pressures which lie
behind radium and plutonium bullets by actually seeing the pressure
figures. Try it. Start with the first octave at 8. By cubing 8 it equals 64,
then 512, then 4,096. The carbon octave comes next with pressure of
32,768. These are your normal pressures, as well as for all organic animal
and vegetable life. When you cube your normal pressures you are running
into danger. Nitrogen, for example, is phosphorous when cubed once,
and it is arsenic when cubed twice. Nitrogen is necessary for you but
phosphorous and arsenic will immediately "eat up" the nitrogen of your
body and kill you by their radioactive expansion.
Oxygen is sulphur when cubed once to equal 262,144 pressures.
Sulphur will kill you, however, for sulphur is the dying body of oxygen
and you cannot eat your dying body. If you ignite sulphur it will consume
oxygen. If you cube oxygen five times you arrive at the deadly radium uranium-plutonium octave with its tremendous pressures of over a
billion. These are the very nearly dead bodies of the elements which
constitute the universal body. The reason that these bodies poison you is the
simple fact that you cannot eat the dead bodies of parts of your own living body. If we
cannot survive the ptomaine poisoning of slightly decayed fish, how can we possibly
survive the maximum putridity which radioactivity is?
The deadly strontium octave reaches the tremendous pressure of
16,777,216, and the barium octave reaches 134,217,728 pressures.
Underground these tremendous explosive pressures give birth to lower
pressures by releasing higher ones from crystallized structures. That is the
cyclic, or reincarnation process of Nature. Above ground, however,, the
cycle acts in reverse. Dead bodies kill living bodies instead of borning
them. That is why oxygen and the free radioactive metals cannot co -exist.
That is why thousands of tons of radioactive death in plutonium, stron -

32

ATOMIC SUICIDE?

tium, thorium, radium and the other nearly dead elements used in reactor
plants and discarded as waste, will gradually consume the earth's
atmosphere and its oceans if not prevented from allowing the dead to
remain buried, instead of resurrecting it to kill the living. We must
understand that all bodies beyond carbon are dying bodies and that living
bodies cannot live by consuming dead ones. There is a point of decay in
all bodies, whether they are carrots, meat, fruit, oxygen or nitrogen. You
do not have to be convinced that you cannot live if you consume
decaying bodies of vegetables or animals which are composed of
nitrogen, oxygen and carbon. Why should it be necessary to convince you
that you cannot live if you consume decaying oxygen, nitrogen or carbon
in their natural forms? Decay and radioactivity are one, except that
radioactivity is fast decay.
Pressures in electric matter are dominated by the geometry of space
wave-fields, which are based upon the cube. We recite this fact in
passing, to explain the use of the word, but its further explanation would
require too much space to record here. We will lightly touch upon it at
the end of this book, however.
You can better understand the death dealing speed of radioactive light
"bullets," which radium or plutonium can shoot at you, if you but
compare the speed and power of Colonial musket bullets to the modern
ones, and then multiply that by thousands of times. Or if you put sixty
pounds of pressure in your tire, instead of thirty, and compare the hiss of
that explosion when you open the valve, with the hiss of a thirty pound
pressure, it will give you a more clear picture of what over a billion times
thirty pounds would do if you could blow up a tire to such a high pres sure.
IV
Let us now enter our house of safety within which our environment is
all contributory to the well being of organic life. By organic life we mean
oxygen dependent bodies. Within that triangle on the universal harp are
only five of its tones out of its total of 121. Those five to nes are carbon,
silicon, oxygen, hydro-

How Radioactivity Kills

33

gen and nitrogen. It will probably amaze you to be informed that four of
these five elements constitute 98 1 / 2 % of your whole body composition.
More amazing still, all five constitute 98 1 / 2% of the upper few feet of the
earth's crust upon which your body is dependent for the food it needs for
survival. The basic constituent of animal bodies is carbon while the basic
constituent for the fertile life giving earth's crust, is silicon. Silico n is the
first stage of death for carbon. It is, therefore, as good for purposes of
earth as carbon is for purposes of life.
Our bodies need many metals but it is extremely important to realize
two things about such needs. One is, that out of the many their total is
only 1 1 / 2 % of our bodies. The other is that not even a millionth of a
milligram of metal enters the body in its free state. They can be present
only as mineral salts, or oxides. Iron, calcium, magnesium, sodium and
many other mineral salts are necessary, but only in infinitesimal amounts.
To indicate the small amounts of metals the body will accept we cite such
examples as manganese, which is present in only seven hundredths of one
per cent, copper one thousandth, nickel two ten thousandths, and gallium
three one hundred thousandths of one per cent. Iron, calcium, iodine,
sodium and other metal salts are necessary also, but in extremely small
fractions.
This seems a very strange thing, for Nature creates only metals. The
text books give lists of non-metals, but there are no nonmetals. All stone
in this universe is composed of one or more pairs of metals in union. The
stone, of which your grindstone is made, is the main source of aluminum,
but the mate of aluminum is phosphorous. Likewise, the stony carbon is
composed of boron and nitrogen in union. Nitrogen is classified as a gas,
but all gases are low pressured metals. The next octave above nitrogen is
phosphorous. It has been multiplied into a solid by one octave of
additional pressure. Nitrogen and oxygen are good friends in the
atmosphere we breathe, but phosphorous will burst into flame and
consume oxygen if exposed to it, and if we breathe it we would die—yet
it is but concentrated, or compressed nitrogen. If you multiply nitrogen
another octave the result is arsenic,

34

ATOMIC SUICIDE?

and that is obviously a metal. If you breathe arsenic vapors or take a very
little of it into your body, even as a salt, it will kill you quickly—yet that
too is but compressed nitrogen.
Every gas, and dense element of every octave, becomes an obvious
metal when multiplied into higher octaves—and therein lies one of the
reasons why organic life is possible only by keeping within the limits
defined by the triangle on the map herein given.
V
We will take for the next step the as yet unknown fact that the
structure of the universe, as one whole body, lives and grows to maturity,
then dies, just as man, and all organic life does. Carefully note the
parallel. A man matures at about forty, which is about one half of his
cycle. During all of that period of time he is growing stronger and is
more vital. From that moment, however, he begins to die. His
generoactive maximum is reached and his radioactive period begins. He
may still grow stronger in body but his cells are dying faster than he can
keep them regenerated. When he is about eighty death has caught up with
the power which charges bodies into life. The WHY of that is what you need
to know for your own sake, and the WHY of the death of metals is what a tomic
engineers must know.
The entire birth and growth of matter matures at carbon. It matures as
a flaming true sphere, any part of which will crystallize as a true cube
when frozen into form. The cold cube of space and the hot sphere of
matter are the consummate forms of Nature. Beyond that they cannot go.
Also, they are Nature's limitations in pressures, temperatures and
frequencies. Beyond the cube and the sphere they cannot go. When you
understand this fundamental of Nature you will then understand WHY
and HOW you and all things live, and WHY and HOW you die. Follow
this explanation carefully then, and you will know. As to "WHERE you
go when you die," that can wait, but that also you will know before you
finish this book. We will leave this idea of cube-sphere limitation, and its
reversal for a moment, but will return.
Now look at your chart and find carbon in the fourth octave

How Radioactivity Kills

35

symbolized by a cube centering a sun. From that point on death begins
and multiplies its power to die in the same ratio as it has multiplied its
power to live. In other words, it now accumulates as much centrifugal
speed to disappear into its invisible Source as it accumulated centripetal
speed on the way to its destination in carbon. The only difference is that
the generoactive speed of compression is inward from the outside until maturity
in carbon, and after that its radioactive speed explodes outward from the
inside. In each case the inward speed of 186,400 miles per second is
reached at the maximum point of life in carbon, and the outward speed is
reached at the amplitude of the 9th octave, just beyond the transuranium
elements, which is the maximum point of universal death.
What we have just stated is one of the most significant facts of Nature. It has
never been known because it has never been known that the universe lives and dies
just as man lives and dies. Nor has it been known that bodies live by fast motion and
also die by fast motion. All through this book you will never lose sight of
that fact, for it runs through the book like a golden thread in a tapestry,
as it does all through Nature.
You must fully understand that electric compression continues to
generate after carbon has been reached, and death has begun to find
supremacy, just as a forty year old man may still become stronger and
more vital after he has begun to die. If you examine these elements
beyond carbon you will find that they are all more dense and much more
heavy than any element up to and including carbon. Plutonium is the
heaviest of all elements. It is also the greatest of the twenty two killer
metals. These killer metals are what atomic energy is intending to releas e
into our atmosphere. We will now explain why killer metals kill and why
other metals do not kill.
VI
God, the Creator is LIGHT—the invisible White Light of the undivided and
unchanging Magnetic universe.
In God's Creation He limits all motion to that point in compression
where invisible white light has been reached between

36

ATOMIC SUICIDE?

the two visible yellows of flame in fission state. When a sun has become a
true sphere its center has reached the white invisible still point in the
spectrum where motion has ceased. Up to that very point the inward
speed of compression has multiplied to its limit of 186,400 miles per
second. At that point also the sun has reached its maximum temperature.
At that point also, there is but one center of gravity. Until then there are two. White
light is always invisible, for it is always still. It could not be white
otherwise. Any motion, whatsoever, would be visible as yellow.
The point which we wish to emphasize by the above is that when
generoactivity has created a true sphere it also has created within it a
white light of gravity to center it. It has also created its maximum speed
and maximum temperature. It can go no farther. The Creator has
consummated His Creation. He has given all He has to give. One half of
His Law of Love has been fulfilled. Up to that point The Einstein
Equation of 1905 fits perfectly. It fully accounts for the mathematics of life, but
not for death. The other half of the Law of Love must now be fulfilled.
That which has been given must be equally regiven. The balanced rhythm
of this universe must not be upset. For this reason that which has been
must be repeated in reverse, to void that which has been, for neither life
nor death can end or begin. They can only be repeated, and when they are repeated
they do so through each other.
You have now taken another big step in comprehending the difference
between slow normal death and quick radioactive death. We must again
hold this idea in suspense for a time, as it has many angles and facets
which are better to be completed together, as a good diamond cutter
does, instead of trying to complete one at a time.
VII
The next step for comprehension brings two words into our story
which are of great import. These words are centripetal and centrifugal.
Their real office in Nature has not yet been known, other than the fact
that one supposedly contracts from the inside

How Radioactivity Kills

37

—which is not true, and the other expands. What is not yet understood is
the fact that centrifugal spiral motion, in this entire universe, is expressed
where pairs of centripetal pairs meet in sex union in Nature's electric
current, and begin the journey of re-giving back to the Giver of motion.
If this fact had been known there would have been no "expanding
universe" theory. The text books say that there is no uphill flow of
energy. Centripetal motion is that uphill flow. The cyclone vortice is that
uphill flow. The winding of the universal clock spring is that uph ill flow.
The charging of your battery, your body, and the creative process of
compression, is that uphill flow. Nature creates atom units centripetally
in mated pairs. She causes atom unit pairs to collide and explode. There
are not any atomic systems in Nature until mated pairs meet in sex union
at wave amplitudes.
Look into the heavens. Every spinning spiral nebula is an atomic
system on a stellar scale. It is made up of the dying parts of a united pair
which has arrived at its centripetal maximum and must begin its
dissolving journey back to its source. That dissolution is expressed by
rings which wind up into spheres. These spheres throw off more rings
centrifugally until all "wound up matter" has been "unwound." Centrifugal
motion is the outward direction of death. Radioactivity is centrifugal. The power to
kill, which has been generated in the twenty-two radioactive killer metals,
is due to the intensively high pressure which has been compressed into
them beyond their ability to hold. As a result they discharge their death
rays in metal bullets for the thousands of years they consume in their
dying. These metal bullets are as potent in killing you as bullets
discharged from a revolver, and the principle of their projection is the
same. The only difference is that radioactive bullets are so ultra
microscopic that five billions of them would not make up a pinhead in
size, but their expanding power within your body more than makes up for
their smallness. In fact, their power to expand within your cells is their
danger, for expanding cells are dying cells.
We will pause again to examine these bullets so that you will get a very
clear idea of their potency, and know also that it would be as impossible
for you to be protected from them as it

38

ATOMIC SUICIDE?

would be impossible to protect you from feeling the effects of the sun.
Let us, therefore, first examine radium expansion bullets.
VIII
We again refer you to your nine stringed Cosmic Harp. You will find
radium on the 9th string. Remember that all bodies are dying from the
5th string to the 9th, although they are trying very hard to live. Look at
carbon with that thought in mind. Imagine its relationship to matured life
such as you would find in a virile athlete of forty. Its cube crystal form
indicates its perfection of body. Now look at silicon on the 5th string.
The athlete is now a virile man of fifty, but not his equal of ten years ago.
Silicon and silicates can reach amplitude and the hexagon in crystal
structure, but cannot reach the balanced cube.
Now look at the 6th and 7th strings. The athlete is dying with great
spasmodic efforts to live. He can never reach amplitude again, however.
Carbon was enabled to void its metallic quality by the union of a pair. In
the 6th and 7th octaves, however, that amplitude collision is not
consummated, even though five terrific efforts are made to accomplish it.
The yield has been but five pairs of metals, and their inability to create a
sphere with one center of gravity, instead of five pairs of centers, has
yielded the high pressured metals known as cobalt in the 6th octave, and
rhodium in the 7th.
Beyond the 7th octave the effort to live becomes greater. That
tremendous effort to compress multiplies the power to die. Thirteen
efforts in pairs are made in the eighth octave with the yield of a prototype
of cobalt known as lutecium. You may study all of these pairs of metals
by examining The Russell Periodic Chart No. 1.
In the radium octave these pairs of efforts are detectable on the red
side of the spectrum, but not on the blue side, for reasons which would
occupy too much space to tell here, and not sufficiently necessary to this
story. As a part of it, however, take note that all of the worst radioactive killer
metals are on the red side.
Now, as to radium. What is it? Let us examine its ancestry.

How Radioactivity Kills

39

Beryllium, in the 4th octave, which has a pressure intensity of 32,768,
begat magnesium, which has an explosive pressure intensity of 262,144.
Magnesium begat calcium, which has an explosive pressure of 2,097,152.
Calcium begat strontium, at 16,777,216 units of pressure. Strontium begat
barium, at 134,217,728, and barium begat radium which has accumulated
the enormous power to eject its bullets of 1,073,741,824 times that which
it had at birth 9 octaves back.
Your greatest comprehension of the deadliness of the radioactive
elements can come by the study of radium. We cite radium, for you can
very easily visualize its deadliness by purchasing a little inexpensive
instrument called a spinthariscope at any opticians for about three
dollars. Within it is a fine needle which has touched a long empty,
supposedly used up small vial of that very expensive radium. We cite this
fact to drive home to you the potency of so inconceivable an element as
this, which cannot seemingly ever be used up. It may be that several
hundred thousand more spinthariscopes can still be made from that
empty vial.
If you look through the lens toward a fluorescent screen you will see a
sight so glorious that it could not be matched except by looking through
a telescope at a star cluster. Thousands of stars seem to be exploding
against that screen. What you see are the death rays of one of the most
poisonous of the radioactive elements. You are seeing the luminous
metallic expansion bullets which leave their metallic quality in their target
to continue their expansion, and pass through, and beyond it into an inert
gas named niton, then through another named zenon, then through
another named krypton, and another named argon, and still another
named neon until it finds its final resting place in helium. In passing
through all these they have expanded them all to get back to the low
pressures of the 4th octave. Further description of this principle must be
deferred until the inert gases can be more fully explained in Chapter XI.
We can add, however, that plutonium bullets are not content to stop at
helium. They continue right through to the inert gas of the beginning of
Creation in octave 1.

40

ATOMIC SUICIDE?

The wonderful, and amazing fact of this little instrument is that you
could still see it as it now is for thousands of years. That fact should answer
for you the question as to the ability of man to protect you from it after thousands of
tons of the still_ more deadly plutonium are distributed all over the country in solid
ten ton piles, and not just in the scrapings of an empty milligram vial.
An interesting story is told about radium when it was first discovered.
For awhile it was thought that the life principle had at last been found.
This was so sincerely believed that instruments were made to charge
drinking water with these "life giving rays." Such instruments were
purchased by the wealthy for as high as $1,000. Very soon, however, the
tragic error was discovered before it became serious. Today, however, the
danger is so well known that the number of seconds in which one is
exposed to X rays, or any radioactive effect, are checked and counted to
prevent too much exposure to these now known death rays.
In closing this description of radium we feel that your decision as to
whether or not YOU can be protected from its dangers would be affected
by the following story of the tragedy which resulted from a slight
accident in a laboratory, which we are quoting from an article from
Colliers. Such things are impossible to prevent. In reading it remember
that it is only radium, the lesser radioactive element in that octave. That
might also happen with plutonium, which is many times stronger.
"A graphic example of how fast and far contamination can spread
occurred a few years ago when someone in a Navy laboratory on
Treasure Island in San Francisco Bay stepped on a glass vial
containing a barely visible amount of radium salt. The accident was
discovered late in the afternoon, and by the time decontamination
crews got on the job 16 hours later, the radium had already spread
throughout the San Francisco area for a radius of 20 miles.
Automobiles used by students and instructors in the lab were
heavily contaminated, especially the steering wheels and floor mats.
Their homes were jumping with radioactivity. "It was un-

How Radioactivity Kills

41

canny," recalls Lieutenant Commander Royce K. Skow, who directed
much of the decontamination work. "With our instruments, we could
trace the movements of the men just as though their tracks were
visible. A sofa showed the outline of a student's body where he had
lain down. We traced one young father from his living room to his
child's crib. Two 'hot' spots showed where he had put his hands on
the railing of the crib."
In a typical home, seven miles from the laboratory, a student had
contaminated doorknobs, towels and water faucets. His bedspread
and pillow, his slippers, his armchair, a writing desk and his pencils,
his clothes—all showed radioactivity.
Since the contamination had spread outside the laboratory, where it
could have been handled more effectively, drastic measures were
called for. Decontamination teams ripped out carpets from a dozen
homes. Automobile mats and seat covers were junked. Shoes which
were only lightly affected were scrubbed again and again until
instruments indicated they were clean.
The laboratory building was permeated with radioactivity and
showed concentrations of radon, radioactive gas given off by radium;
men entering the building wore special respirators. After a few days,
crews went into the structure and burned the surface of concrete
areas with scaling torches. Paint was removed. Every foot of the
building was washed down. Linoleum was peeled up.
Two hundred drums of highly contaminated objects, principally
carpets, clothing, linoleum and cleaning rags, were weighted with
concrete and dumped into 100 fathoms of water far at sea. The
building itself, a 31-room structure, could not be used for three
months.
Everything connected with radioactivity is complicated by its
indestructibility. A piece of contaminated newspaper cannot be
burned except in a special incinerator. Even then, the ash must be
carefully disposed of and gases and smokes given off in the burning
must be washed or filtered. Then the poisoned water and filters must
be isolated or buried."
IX
Once more we refer you to the nine octave chart. To describe radium
is to describe them all, for their effects are the same. One should know
them all, however. Practically all of the deadly

42

ATOMIC SUICIDE?

killers are on the red side of the spectrum. You will gleam the reason for
this in later chapters. They begin with three silvery white metals on the
lowest of the radioactive octaves, the silicon octave. The first two are
sodium and magnesium. Sodium will set water on fire and burn its oxygen
out, if you throw a lump of it in water. One small pinhead of it as a free
metal will kill you, but when deprived of its metal quality by union with
chlorine you need it in minute quantities in your body. It is table salt.
Magnesium is the familiar flashlight of photography. Naturally its
radioactivity will kill you if taken into your body in its free state, yet you
need a minute fraction of it as a mineral salt. Aluminum has such a
density that its radioactive powers need not be feared in that octave, but
in its succeeding octaves it gradually becomes more deadly than radium.
Its highest form is actinium, which is an element between radium and
uranium.
The sodium series, including lithium, potassium, rubidium, caesium and
an unknown element one octave higher, are in the deadly class, especially
because of their power to destroy oxygen by expanding it with such quick
death that it bursts into flame. This effect is so little understood that a
brief example will simplify it. If you touch a match to oxygen you will get
a hot flame. If you compress oxygen into a liquid and then touch a match
to it you will get a hotter flame, for you have multiplied its speed and
expansion by multiplying its compression.
Sodium, calcium or potassium multiply the expansion of oxygen in its
gaseous form and give forth the heat that liquid oxygen would give.
Likewise, oxygen is multiplied in its heat-giving power if united with
calcium-carbide to create an oxyacetylene flame. Consider the deadliness
of potassium in this respect by the following example. You will find
potassium one octave above sodium. You very freely take carbon and
nitrogen into your body. They are two of your five essential elements. If
you add a minute amount of potassium to them, however, you produce
cyanide of potassium, a deadly quick electrocuting poison. This is an
example of what a minute quantity of radioactive matter would do if added to the
essentials of our blood

How Radioactivity Kills

43

plasma. That is why leukemia, birth deformities and impotence will be the
forerunners of greater scourges to come.
We will again leave these thoughts in abeyance until they are more
completely tied together at the end of the book.
X
We have stated before that all of the elements of matter are frozen
flame. The generoactive compressive force of Nature quite easily freezes
low potential explosions. Each succeeding higher potential requires
greater effort to freeze it, therefore, it requires greater heat to melt it.
The highest melting point of all the elements is 3,600 centigrade. This
high point is reached at carbon. Silicon in the next octave reaches only
1,420 degrees and cobalt only 1,440 degrees.
The great unexplained mystery of melting points is the fact that the red
side of the carbon octave reaches high melting points because of the fact
that two of them are dense solids. On the blue side all three are gases and
have melting points as low as 223 degrees below zero. Fluorine reaches
this point while its mate on the red side, which is lithium, reaches 186
degrees above zero.
It seems strange that this octave of the highest maturity has three
below zero elements on its blue side and high ones on its red side, when
the dying elements have very high melting points on the blue s ide and
less than half of those points on the red side. It is more strange still to
metallurgists that many of the elements in the radioactive half of the
chart are heavier and much more solid than carbon, the heaviest element
on the living side of the chart. Tantalum, for example, reaches 3,400
degrees, while its close neighbors on the blue side, reach 2,900, 2,700,
2,250, 1,750 and 1,063. The answer to this is also more clearly defined
later, but, very briefly, the reason is that the red side of the spectrum
represents the fatherhood of Creation, which seeks the inside of forming
spheres where the fires of Creation are centered, and the blue side
represents its motherhood and seeks the outside to fashion bodies in her
womb, and cool them

44

ATOMIC SUICIDE?

into form. In the first half of the electric creating process the blue half is
compressed out of the generating body, by exploding from within, while
the red half gains its center, by compression exerted from the outside. In
the second half the situation is reversed. All Nature is constantly
reversing, and in doing so is constantly turning inside out and outside in.
This conspicuous and obvious fact of Nature has not yet been sensed by
observers.
SUMMARY
The foregoing has described the manner in which Nature projects
motion from space and space reflects it back again. The one point which
we accentuate in this whole process is the highly explosive nature of the
radioactive metals. We do this for the purpose of demonstrating that this
high and quick explosive power is needed in Nature's death process to
assist in the decay and death of the slow dying rocky formations which
first constitute the bodies of new planets, which Nature has set out from
her sun crucibles to freeze. Millions of years—or perhaps billions—are
consumed in the process of decaying enough of the earth's surface to
create the conditions necessary for organic life. Such conditions cannot
be possible nearer to the sun than seventy to eighty million miles, and
ceases to be possible when a planet reaches as far out as Mars.
Water, oxygen, humus and the necessary carbohydrates of life are
created by the exploding metallic bullets of the dying elements as they
assist dense elements to die, but if they also project their death into less
dense bodies, such as animal tissues, those lesser solids and the gases of
their atmosphere, will again be assisted in their desire to expand, which is
inherent in all matter.
In conclusion, therefore, we say to you that every ounce of free
radioactive metal which is removed from its purposeful position of
bombarding the unfertile, dry, hot rocks of Nature to yield pairs of
bodies for making organic life possible on this planet, will not only clear
the entire planet of all organic life but will keep it thus cleared until the
many uranium piles above ground, are entirely dissolved by their own
radiations. The num-

How Radioactivity Kills

45

ber of thousands of years necessary for that is not predictable, but it is
calculated by authorities that plutonium rays have a duration of over
twenty thousand years. That is a long time. The dawn of Consciousness
was but 10,000 years ago. How far back will man be, therefore, when he
again appears on earth—if he ever will?

CHAPTER III

The World Voice
I
This chapter is devoted to the world opinion and the world fear of
radioactivity. It is not written to support the evidence w e have given, but
merely to express the world voice. We include it, also, because the world
fear does not know what it fears. The effects are known, but the WHY of
those effects are not known. That is why we must write the WHY, else
the danger will be beyond remedy before the world becomes aware of it.
We will cite two reasons for this statement before we quote the press —
and the fears of scientists.
Our first reason is our belief that the greatest danger from the use of
radioactivity is defective births and leukemia. That danger will creep upon
civilization without any way of detecting it. One cannot go about with
instruments to measure genetic damage, as one can do to measure the
amount of strontium and other radioactivity, which is falling on the soil
from year to year. We believe that sterility will be an accompanying
effect, while abnormalities of living bodies will be secondary. It could not
be otherwise, for genes are not basic in potency. There is something
behind and underneath genes, and that is the seed. No human has ever
attempted to explain the seed, therefore, it is permissible for us to say
that the principle of rebirth in bodies is not yet known on earth. We
know it, however, and because of that we know the danger which has no
meaning to those who do not know. This mystery has to do with
knowledge of the purpose of inert gases in relation to the seeds of things.
We will more fully explain this mystery in Chapter XI. Right here,
however, we can say that every living body refolds into

46

The World Voice

47

its seed simultaneously with its unfolding from its seed. With radioactivity
in general use it will not be many years before the translucent light of the
inert gases, especially niton, which we described in relation to the deadly
blue-white light radiations from radium, and the still more deadly blue
light of uranium, will make seed-regeneration gradually impossible in
either animal or vegetable species. This is the danger which will come
unannounced. It is the one of which we are most apprehensive, and could
cost hundreds of millions of sterile humans and more millions of
defective births.
Geneticists have already begun to talk about mutations, for they
understand

how

the

seed-pattern

can

be

altered

by

abnormal

environment, but beyond that, to the seed itself, and its manner of
refolding a dimensioned material image, such as a hundred ton oak, into a
dimensionless, weightless, formless micro-pin-point inert gas recording of
itself, they do not know. Nor does anyone know what the blue-white
fluorescent light of inert gas from radium or from plutonium, means to
the seed and to sterility. We believe, for instance, that if a reactor plant,
such as the Hanford one in Washington, is placed north of New York
City, as now planned, it would not be many years before the whole of
that vast watershed would have to be abandoned, including many other
cities near New York. To us that is as much a certainty as that a two foot
high sapling will be ten feet high in a few years. It is an orderly
mathematical fact of growth. In the processes of Nature it could not be
otherwise. One could be forewarned of that danger before it had reached
that extremity, but one cannot be forewarned of the sterility of all organic
life until it has affected possibly more than half the population of the
whole world in various degrees.
When radium was first used its danger was not known. No one was
then forewarned of it. Because of that fact a laboratory worker named
Dr. Emil H. Grubbe, was constantly exposed to it until he developed
cancer burns. These did not kill him but since then he has had to undergo
90 operations because of them. He still lives at 81, but his isolated case
would certainly number millions by 1970 if nuclear fission comes into
general

48

ATOMIC SUICIDE?

use. Does it make you feel comfortable to contemplate that fate for you,
and more especially your children?
Dr. Percy Brown, a Boston X-ray specialist, had fifty operations
because of various X-ray effects, including cancer. He died in 1950 after
24 years of suffering from those effects.
The well known case of accidental death which came to young Harry
K. Daglian, Jr., of New London, is typical, for every known means of
protection surrounded him every moment. Yet he died in 25 days because
of the bomb test accident at Los Alamos, New Mexico.
Back in those days before radium danger was known, seventeen girls
had been employed to paint watch dials with a radium mixed paint. One
by one, they all developed strange bone and blood diseases until all of
them died. It has been said that such a thing could not happen now
because we are forewarned. There would be thousands of cases
continually happening where one could not be forewarned, such as the
San Francisco case where someone accidentally stepped upon a very small
vial of radium and exposed a whole city, which could have been wiped
out because of it, had the accident not been accidentally discovered.
Dr. Alfred H. Sturtevant is an eminent geneticist. In 1955 he made the
following statement: "The last bomb test alone probably produced more
than 70 human mutations which are likely to produce large numbers of
defective children in the future." Our mental and other institutions for
defectives are already overflowing. The tax upon normal humans for the
support of these defectives is a great burden. Such an increase in de fectives as radioactivity threatens in the near future will make it
imperative that all defectives be destroyed at birth. There could be no
other way. Think of what our civilization would be like if it fell to such a
low level as that.
Our second reason concerns the misconception of present day beliefs
in relation to the ability of matter to absorb other matter. For a specific
example, the text books describe lithium as a metal which has great
power for absorbing water. There is no such power in all Nature. Matter
does not absorb, nor contract,

The World Voice

49

nor attract. Matter is compressed and will expand and destroy, but it will not
absorb. And in that misconception lies a terrible danger, for what does
actually happen is that lithium expands oxygen and destroys it. And so does
sodium, potassium, strontium, calcium and the other silvery white k iller
metals, which look like silver but which you could crush between your
fingers. If lithium and sodium expand oxygen in water, and your body is
two thirds water, think of what it would do to your body. Always bear in
mind that everything which is dying is expanding, or, conversely,
expansion is the basic condition for necessary death. Sudden expansion
causes flame and great heat, for sudden expansion is an electric short-circuit.
Another dangerous misconception is evidenced in the commonly used
term: ". . . releases an extraordinary amount of energy." Energy is not
released. What actually happens is that potential is released, not energy—and
that means expansion. Atomic fission helps matter to explode instantly
instead of decaying over long periods. "Released energy" means quick expansion, and quick expansion into the universal vacuum is the death
process of any kind of material body, whether it be iron, carbon or a
human blood corpuscle. That conception which gives to energy the
quality of expanding or contracting, is one of the contributing factors to
the deadliness of radioactivity as a power for man's use. Energy is
changeless. It is the eternal vacuum of the zero universe—God's
universe. To confuse the compressive power of electricity to create
potential for the purpose of simulating energy, with energy itself, it
extremely unfortunate.
If radioactivity ever came into general use there would be thousands of
planes continually discharging ultramicroscopic particles by the billions
per square mile. Thousands of ships would do, likewise, and kill every
fish in the seas in time. Hundreds of reactor plants would make it
impossible for you to eat any untainted food, whatsoever. Such a thing as
the normal food you are accustomed to would soon be as impossible for
you as it is for the cow, which is now compelled to eat contaminated

50

ATOMIC SUICIDE?

grass to make into the milk you drink and the beef you eat.
Let us make clearer to you what we mean by the ability of metals like
lithium, sodium, calcium or strontium to expand within you and hasten
your death. A metal like iron, or gold, cannot hurt you from outside of
your body because it will not expand unless you apply an intensely hot
acetylene flame to it. Lithium will expand and explode in ordinary room
temperature. It cannot be kept in its metallic state unless immersed in oil.
If you touch an ordinary match to it a white hot flame quickly consumes
it at the cost of a lot of oxygen.
Sodium will burst into flame without a match. Just throw it in water.
The resultant flame does not absorb water, it expands the oxygen in it and
sends it back into its cathode zero where all dead things go. It bursts into
flame. Flame destroys. It does not absorb. A lesser heat than a flame
expands towards death, even though it may not destroy.
In this connection the Atomic Energy Commission issued a report to
the effect that the first atomic submarine, the Nautilus, had now been in
operation two years without a single illness from radioactive poison
taking place. Here is an inference that the atomic submarine has been
proved safe. Is it? One year ago the second atomic submarine, the Sea
Wolf, was launched. It is now known that its liquid sodium power system
cannot be prevented from leakage and has to be removed. If a thousand
such ships sailed the seas and each lost even a very little of such poison it
would so utterly change the percentage of sodium in the ocean that no
fish could survive it.
We have now given our two main reasons for believing that the
humans who are thus dealing with death do not know the deadly nature
of these killer metals, nor do they know that their power to kill lies in their
power to expand every other atom or cell of matter which they come in contact with. It
is that very power which makes them valuable and necessary in their own
environment. Their ability to expand and "kill" granite, basalt, and other
rock formations, gives to earth the few feet of decayed soil, atmosphere
and water, necessary for organic life.

The World Voice

51
II

The following extracts from the National Academy of Sciences are the
findings and opinions of 145 leading scientists who met for the purpose
of studying this problem, under a financial grant from the Rockefeller
Foundation:
"The problems of radiation fall naturally into two main classes: (1)
the effects on human beings; (2) the various ways in which radiation
can reach human beings through the environment.
The inheritance mechanism is by far the most sensitive to radiation
of any biological system.
Any radiation which reaches the reproductive cells causes mutations (changes in the material governing heredity) that are passed
on to succeeding generations.
Human gene mutations which produce observable effects are
believed to be universally harmful.
Everyone is subjected to the natural background radiation which
causes an unavoidable quantity of so-called spontaneous mutations.
Anything that adds radiation to this naturally occurring background
rate causes further mutations, and is genetically harmful.
There is no minimum amount of radiation which must be exceeded
before mutations occur. Any amount, however small, that reaches
the reproductive cells can cause a correspondingly small number of
mutations. The more radiation, the more mutations.
The harm is cumulative. The genetic damage done by radiation
builds up as the radiation is received, and depends on the total
accumulated gonad dose received by people from their own
conception to the conception of their last child.
So far as individuals are concerned, not all mutant genes or
combinations of mutant genes are equally harmful. A few may cause
very serious handicaps, many others may produce much smaller
harm, or even no apparent damage.
MAY TAKE GENERATIONS
But from the point of view of the total and eventual damage to the
entire population, every mutation causes roughly the same amount of
harm. This is because mutant genes can only disappear

52

ATOMIC SUICIDE?
when the inheritance line in which they are carried dies out. In cases
of severe and obvious damage this may happen in the first generation;
in other cases it may require hundreds of generations.
Thus, for the general population, and in the long run, a little
radiation to a lot of people is as harmful as a lot of radiation to a few,
since the total number of mutant genes can be the same in the two
cases.
It is difficult to arrive at a figure showing how much genetic harm
radiation can do. One measure is the amount of radiation, above the
natural background, which would produce as many mutations again as
occur spontaneously. It is estimated that this amounts to 30 to 80
Roentgens.
[The roentgen is a unit of radiation. To give an idea of its value, the
average dental X ray deliver five roentgens to the patient's jaw, but
only five thousandths of a roentgen of stray radiation to more remote
parts of the body such as the gonads.]
It is also estimated that a dose of 10 roentgens to every person in
the United States would cause something on the order of 5,000,000
mutant genes, which would then be a part of the population's inheritance pool. This figure is subject to considerable uncertainty.
At present the United States population is exposed to radiation
from (1) the natural background, (2) medical and dental X rays, (3)
fall-out from atomic weapons testing. The 30-year dose to the gonads
received by the average person from each of these sources is estimated
as follows:

1. Background—about 4.3 roentgens.
2. X rays and fluoroscopy—about 3 roentgens.
3. Weapons tests—if continued at the rate of the past five years
would give a probable 30-year dose of about 0.1 roentgens. This figure
may be off by a factor of five, that is, the possible range is from 0.02
to 0.5 roentgens. If tests were conducted at the rate of the two most
active years (1953 and 1955) the 30-year dose would be about twice as
great as that just stated.
At present test explosions of atomic weapons are the only
significant source of radiation in the general environment, above the
natural background.
Meteorologists have found no evidence that atomic explosions have
changed the weather or climate. Nor do they believe that continued
weapon tests, at the same rate and in the same areas as in the past,
would have such an effect.

The World Voice

53

Radiation from explosions passes into the atmosphere and much of
it eventually returns to the ground as "fall-out."
Fall-out divides into three classes: (1) close-in—material that comes
down within a few hundred miles of the explosion and within 10 to 20
hours, (2) intermediate—material that descends in a few weeks after
the explosion, (3) delayed—material that remains in the air for months
or years.
Close-in fall-out from test explosions affects only restricted, uninhabited regions.
Intermediate fall-out would descend very slowly if it were pulled
down only by gravity. It is mostly washed out of the air by rain and
snow. It spreads over large parts of the earth, but its effect over a
small area may be accentuated if there is heavy precipitation while the
radioactive cloud is overhead.
Delayed fall-out is stored for long periods in the stratosphere.
Meteorologists know very little about the interchange of air between
the stratosphere and lower layers, so they cannot predict exactly how
long the material will stay up, or where it is likely to descend."
National Academy of Sciences Genetics Committee states:
"The report of the Genetics Committee of the National Academy of
Sciences was unanimous and blunt: "Any radiation is genetically
undesirable, since any radiation induces harmful mutations [changes]."
This complex chemical compound known as a gene cannot repair
itself, and to date we know of no way of repairing it.
The injured gene will handicap some descendant, even though it
may skip many generations before it does so. It may cause physical
and mental handicaps to a whole line, and it will keep trying until at
last it kills off the line.
Thus, the geneticists say cold-bloodedly, from the standpoint of the
human race it would be better to have a few thousand humans
severely radiated than to have whole populations subjected to minor
radiations.
If, as medical evidence overwhelmingly shows, man-made radiation
is not good for healthy human beings, the logical questions are: Where
and how might you be exposed? What can you do to protect yourself
and your family?

54

ATOMIC SUICIDE?
You could be exposed through:

1. Ordinary medical X rays;
2. Eating food, drinking water or milk or breathing air that has been
contaminated by fall-out from the explosion of atomic weapons tested
by the United States, England and Russia;
3. Food or water contaminated by radioactive wastes from an atomic
installation; . . ."
Dr. W. F. Libby says:
"Last May 2, Dr. W. F. Libby, Commissioner, United States Atomic
Energy Commission, presented to the National Academy of Sciences
what is probably the most authoritative public report to date on
"Radioactive Strontium Fall-out."
Samples of radioactive strontium, Dr. Libby said, were detected in
the snow at Admiral Byrd Bay in the Antarctic; in the waters of the
Danube, the Mississippi, the Seine and the Moselle Rivers; in alfalfa in
the fields of Wisconsin and Iowa, and in soil in various sections of the
country.
Dr. Libby concluded his report by observing that the average
content of radioactive strontium is increasing in milk supplies all over
the world, and therefore more and more human beings are putting
more and more radioactive strontium into their bodies.
Since growing children concentrate calcium, they are likely to
absorb more of this dangerous relative of calcium into their bones
than adults. And any material incorporated into their bodies during
childhood will have a longer time to act."
An atomic laboratory worker dies from atomic rays:
"Philadelphia VP)—Exposure to atomic radiation in a government
laboratory between 8 and 10 years ago has taken the life of a
Philadelphia physician, the city medical examiner said.
Medical Examiner Joseph W. Spelman issued his finding after an
inquest into the death last July 24 of Dr. Kenneth A. Koerber, 50, of
Philadelphia. Dr. Koerber had worked in the Atomic Energy
Commission's Brookhaven National Laboratories, Upton, N. Y.,
between 1946 and 1948. He inspected laboratories to protect workers
from radiation.
"We presume," Dr. Spelman said, that Dr. Koerber somehow got a dose
of atomic radiation which now, 10 years later, caused

The World Voice

55

his death. We have conclusively proved that he was subject to atomic
radiation or to the inhalation or to the eating of atomic compounds.
At the present time his bones contain 1,000 times the maximum safe
concentration of radiation."
We quote from James Poling, in Better Homes and Gardens, May, 1957.
The following is far from comforting, if not alarming.
"An H-bomb explosion at our Bikini test site, March 1st, 1954,
blew a scientific concept, as well as an island, into smithereens.
Fallout had previously been regarded as a hazard confined to the
immediate vicinity of an atomic explosion. But a recording instrument at Rongelap, 100 miles to the east of Bikini, revealed that this
bomb had sprayed alarming quantities of radioactive dust over that
atoll. And we learned for the first time that fallout from a multimegaton bomb was lethal over an area of several thousand square
miles. Now we know the naked horror of the bomb. It poses as a
potential threat to all mankind."
The Miami Herald prints the following:
DETROIT ATOM PLANT CALLED DANGEROUS
"Washington—In a memo suppressed by Atomic Energy Chairman Lewis Strauss, atomic scientists have warned sternly that the
"fast breeder" power reactor he approved for construction outside
Detroit may "risk the health and safety of the public."
Last November, a similar but smaller experimental reactor at Arco,
Idaho, melted down into a hot radioactive heap that couldn't be
touched for six months. Puzzled scientists still haven't found the
cause.
Yet Strauss, ignoring the urgent advice of his own safety experts,
okayed construction of the same design atomic power plant in
Detroit's populous back yard."
The eminent scientist authority upon radioactivity, Dr. Ralph Lapp,
upholds our contention that the upper stratosphere will not send in its
full bill for our payment until the late seventies. There is no question but
what the stratosphere is accumulating death rays for destruction of earth's
oxygen at an increasing rate. The freely expressed belief that "the pull of
gravity" will bring

56

ATOMIC SUICIDE?

the fall-out to earth is costly to human survival. A small percentage of the
higher potential goes toward earth, but the larger percentage is of a
potential which is lighter than the earth pressures. These seek the upper
levels and the stratosphere. It , is possible that enough has already
collected to take toll of millions of lives, or cause millions of defective
births, even if we stopped the use of radioactivity now. We print Dr.
Lapp's warning in full, as issued by The Daily Oklahoman of July 5, 1956—
and other papers:
SCIENTIST SAYS H-TESTS NEAR DANGER LEVEL
"Washington, July 4 (INS) —A leading U. S. scientist warned
Wednesday that the world may already have passed the point of safety
in testing hydrogen-bomb weapons.
"Dr. Ralph Lapp, citing evidence that the U. S. has exploded four
H-bombs in the Pacific this year, said the world is a lot closer to the
maximum safe level of radioactivity than was indicated in a recent
report by the National Academy of Sciences.
"Lapp said the NAS report, issued June 13, was "misleading" when
it indicated that the testing of nuclear weapons could be increased 25
to 30 times above the 1950-55 average without endangering the
world's health.
THERE'S SECOND ANGLE
"He said in an interview that the NAS limit was based only on
"external" radiation. He declared the safe maximum is far lower for
"internal ingestion" of radioactive particles carried into the human
system by air, food and water.
"The point I would emphasize," the atomic scientist said, "is that
all of us already have measurable quantities of this bomb-generated
radioactive material in our system.
"Although the quantities are not as yet dangerous in the cases
where measurements have been taken, we now have enough information to determine definitely when the maximum safe level of
radioactivity will be reached."
FOURTH BLAST HINTED
"Lapp, who has repeatedly disclosed information about the dangers of
radiation which were later verified by the atomic energy

The World Voice

57

commission said he believes that three super-bombs probably equal to
about 10 million tons of TNT each had been set off in the current
Pacific test series before Tuesday.
"The Japanese central meteorological station announced evidence of
a fourth super-explosion described as "possibly" an H-bomb Tuesday
morning. If the total for the series is equal to 40 million tons of TNT,
this would double the average annual rate for tests conducted from
1950 through 1955.
"Lapp's warning concerned the effects of radioactive strontium, an
element created when uranium atoms split. The element is chemically
similar to calcium and tends to cause cancer and other ailments by
concentrating in the human skeleton.
CONCLUSION CITED
"Making the much more conservative assumption that test rates
would slowly accelerate and would double by 1970," he said, "I
concluded that by 1962 there will be enough radioactive strontium
committed to the stratosphere to produce a 100 percent 'maximum
permissible amount' in every person on the planet.
"Because of a hold-up of the invisible particles in the upper air —
the particles fall to earth at a rate of about 10 percent a year —this
radioactive strontium would not show up in full amount in the human
body until the late 1970s.
"However, by 1962 the die would have been cast irrevocably."
Instead of a slow acceleration, Lapp said, "the upward arc of bomb
testing is proceeding out of control." With Russia, the U. S. and
Britain conducting H-bomb experiments, he declared, the total
exploded by 1960 could exceed the equivalent of one billion tons of
TNT.
BATTLE NOT NEW
"Lapp has been conducting a running battle against the AEC's
secret policy which prevents announcements concerning most of the
tests and, even at the public detonation May 21, withheld the
explosion data necessary to calculate the exact amount of radiation.
"Education about the biological effects of nuclear radiation is an
absolute prerequisite if the human race is to survive," Lapp said,
adding:
"I think advertisement of the probable effects of war-borne rad-

58

ATOMIC SUICIDE?
ioactivity might also prove a valuable deterrent to the unlimited use
of nuclear weapons."

Collier's was probably the first prominent magazine to vividly portray
the tragic dangers of radioactivity. Two years ago it published an article
about the dangers of "ATOMIC GARBAGE" by Robert De Roos, which
should awaken every human to this dreadful way of exterminating the
human race. We herein print copious extracts from his article. This article
is the first one, ever to have been published to our knowledge, which
discloses the true facts about plutonium, as being the most deadly of the
killer metals. Its greater importance as a killer, lies in the fact that it loses
only half of its radioactivity in 23,000 years. Its primal effect upon the
human body is in its direct attack upon the bone marrow where human
blood corpuscles are formed. Together with strontium, these super
calciums could cause more defective skeletal births and agonizing deaths
than any plague heretofore known to have hurt mankind.
When you read these extracts have this thought in mind; that
radioactivity has hardly begun as yet. This fuel is not intended for
temporary use, but for permanent use. Think ahead, therefore, for a
hundred years. If conditions are as they now are, after but a few
experimental years, what would they be in a hundred years? We believe
that there will not be one man on earth in a hundred years even if so few
as fifty reactors, such as Hanford and Oak Ridge, are erected.
It cannot be said that the danger to human life is not fully realized, for the cost
of the waste storage tanks is 1287,000 each, and the Hanford plant has already
purchased 127,000,000 worth of these tanks. The fallacy of this tank plan is
that the tanks themselves will disintegrate in a century or two, or
become as radioactive as their contents in twenty years, thus fully releasing these deadly rays for many thousands of years of destruction.
Many of these tanks have been thrown into the deep sea. We, of this
generation, are quite safe from them, but other generations will pay
dearly for what we are doing to them. Is not that a dreadful thought?

The World Voice

59

The latest idea for waste disposal is to lock it up in glazed bricks.
Radioactive metals will destroy bricks as readily as they destroy granite
and other rocky formations. It is a slow process but future generations
will be the sufferers from it. There is no possible safe way of getting rid
of radioactive waste beyond a few years. The deserts of the world offer
the only chance. By plowing very deep furrows for hundreds of miles,
and distributing all waste and free metals in very small amounts over
thousands of such miles in many deserts, it may be possible to save our
atmosphere. Otherwise, we will have no atmosphere in time.
One woman of the middle west, who read the following Collier's
article, was heard to say: "Every pregnant woman of the future will
continually fear that her baby may be a defective." What a horrible
thought, especially for women of this generation, to whom such a
thought never occurs.
"Far out in the desert wasteland of eastern Washington, at the
Atomic Energy Commission's gigantic Hanford plutonium works,
radioactive elements surge in vast underground tanks—a pent-up sea
of useless energy which is a constant worry to the scientists who
unwillingly created it. This deadly broth of fission products is the
garbage of the atomic age.
And these highly active liquid wastes are only part of the story.
Potentially dangerous atomic garbage comes in all forms: liquids,
solids, gases and vapors. The ordinary defenses of man are power less
against all of them. Radioactivity is invisible and silent; it cannot be
touched or tasted or smelled. And everything a radioactive element
comes in contact with becomes contaminated: a wrench used in
atomic installations, steel drums, a bit of wastepaper from a
laboratory. Carcasses of experimental animals may contain small
amounts of radioactivity; even the laundry water used to wash
contaminated garments gets polluted.
The story of radioactive wastes is just being understood by the
public. For years it was cloaked in the secrecy which surrounds all
dealings with the atom. But the dilemma posed by the wastes has
been with us ever since the first self-sustaining atomic pile was
activated under the bleachers at Stagg Field in Chicago in 1942, for
when the physicists pulled the switch on the atomic age, they

60

ATOMIC SUICIDE?
also created something else: the world's first radioactive rubbish—
the inevitable, lethal products of nuclear fission.
Ten years of production, which has seen the world-shaking atom
bomb pale before the even more shattering hydrogen bomb, has left
the AEC with an accumulation of millions of gallons of liquid
radioactive garbage and tons of contaminated solid objects. And
there's more every day.
The problem facing the AEC—and a problem which it confidently
asserts is being handled with great efficiency and success—is how to
keep these new materials out of the environment—out of the air we
breathe, out of our drinking water and food supplies. The garbage
must be kept tightly under control because unbelievably small—
often invisible—amounts can contaminate large areas.
What makes the problem so serious is the fact that this radioactive
garbage is bulking up at increasing rates—thousands of gallons every
day.
And it's only the beginning. The atomic-energy industry, big as it
is, is only an infant now, and today's rubbish can be handled by
storing it in remote sections of the country. But under the provisions
of new Congressional legislation, private manufacturers will be
encouraged to develop the commercial uses of fission material. So in
the not-too-distant future, disposal of wastes will become a
neighborhood matter.
Some of the best engineering brains in the country are grap pling
with the serious question, but unless they come up with workable
solutions, constantly swelling stores of waste may hamper full
development of such peacetime atomic projects as generation of
electric power, heating of whole communities from central atomic
"furnaces," propulsion of ships and planes, and thousands of
undreamed-of new ideas.
At Hanford, where the atomic refuse represents the greatest
nonmilitary concentration of radioactive elements ever known to
man, the scientists rely on CC to dispose of highly active wastes. The
radiation level of the hot stuff is fantastically high: the tanks the
trash is buried in contain several million times the radioactivity of
the world's entire commercial supply of radium.

The World Voice

61

Just one element sloughed off in making plutonium—strontium
90—is over 60 times as radioactive as radium. How dangerous is
that? An engineer of the General Electric Company, which operates
Hanford for the AEC, figured out what would happen in the
hypothetical event that you threw the element into the Columbia
River—which no one would be likely to do. After covering a sheet of
paper with computations, he came up with this answer: "It would
take over eight hours of the full flow of the Columbia—fifty-three
billion gallons—to dilute one gram of pure strontium 90 to the point
where the water would be safe enough to drink according to the
AEC's permissible limits. Or putting it another way, if you dripped
three grams of the element in the Columbia every day, the water of
the sixth-largest river in the U. S. would be unfit to drink." (A gram
is 1 / 28 of an ounce.)
In addition to strontium 90, the chain reaction spews out about 40
other radioactive waste elements with half lives ranging from
seconds to millions of years. A half life is the time it takes half of the
atoms in a radioactive element to become disintegrated.
Storage of the really hot stuff is very expensive. A recent contract
for six 1,000,000-gallon tanks was let for $1,724,000. Hanford has
$27,000,000 worth of tanks with a storage capacity of 67,000,000
gallons.
No one claims the tanks provide the solution to atomic rubbish
disposal. "We are uncertain about the effects of these radioactive
wastes," comments General Electric's Dr. Herbert M. Parker, director of the radiological sciences department at Hanford. "We are
starting conservatively while trying to get answers which may modify
the present program."
David F. Shaw, the AEC manager at Hanford, adds: "Meanwhile
we keep building the tanks." At $287,000 each.
Meanwhile, most of the rubbish is stored. The only highly radioactive wastes being thrown away are those now sent out to sea to
be dumped in very deep water beyond the continental shelf. A
federally sponsored committee hopes this system may provide the
ultimate solution to the waste-disposal problem. On the other hand,
oceanographers, sanitary engineers, marine biologists and marine
geologists are already concerned about what will happen when large
amounts of radioactivity are thrown into the oceans.

62

ATOMIC SUICIDE?
"The sea has the same topography as the land," says Dr. Abel
Wolman, of The Johns Hopkins University, a consultant to the AEC
and one of the top sanitary engineers in the United States. "Big as it
is, it won't accommodate everything we want to throw into it."
How winds, waves and currents will affect the dispersion or concentration of radioactive materials is under very serious study. Dr.
Wolman says: "One thing that makes me a little reluctant about using
the ocean is the memory of the New York garbage mess—when New
York dumped its trash far at sea only to have it drift back to the
Jersey beaches. And what about international control of dumping at
sea?"
At Oak Ridge, Tennessee, in the vast silences of the Appalachian
Mountains, stand the tremendous gaseous diffusion plants where
U235 is made by the Carbide & Carbon Chemicals Company, a
division of Union Carbide & Carbon Corporation.
Oak Ridge, a 60,000-acre site, also contains the Oak Ridge National Laboratory, which produces most of the country's radioactive
isotopes for experimental work.
HOW OAK RIDGE GETS RID OF ITS REFUSE
Although its waste problem does not compare with Hanford's in
volume, Oak Ridge still pours 50,000 gallons of highly active refuse
into its underground tanks every week. Another 5,000,000 gallons of
less active rubbish also must be disposed of.
Because Oak Ridge is located in a remote region, the disposal of
less active wastes is not a minor worry; but getting rid of the highly
radioactive rubbish is harder. Teams of scientists, headed by Dr. Z.
K. Morgan, director of the health physics division of the National
Laboratory, believe they have an answer for final disposal of the
dangerous, long-lived refuse at Oak Ridge, if not in all other parts of
the country.
Two huge pits were bulldozed out of a hillside above White Oak
Lake and large amounts of very hot wastes were poured in. The
theory was that the radioactive fission products would be trapped by
the fine particles of shale underlying the pits; any small amounts of
hot stuff that seeped through would be diluted in the waters of the
lake.
Test wells were drilled to detect movement of the rubbish

The World Voice

63

through the ground. At the end of two months, only one waste
element had penetrated through to one well."
McCalls Magazine for January of 1957, had this front cover headline for
a story by Pare Lorentz, "RADIOACTIVITY IS POISONING YOUR
CHILDREN." We quote parts of his story which is indicative of the fear
which is felt throughout the world of this threat to the human race:
"It is no secret today that a hydrogen war, no matter who starts it
or who is attacked, will mean the destruction of most of the human
race. One of our own high-ranking generals has stated publicly that a
hydrogen attack by our forces might take the lives of three or four
hundred million people—enemy or ally—"depending on the direction
of the winds"!
What is not so well known, but what could be equally disastrous,
is a possible slow degeneration of the human race caused by
radioactive poisons released during times of peace.
Here is a substance you can neither see, feel, hear, taste nor smell.
You may be exposed to it unwittingly; you may inhale it, or absorb it
by drinking polluted water or by eating contaminated food. You may
not feel any immediate ill effects, yet some materials remain
radioactive for years in the body, operating as so many infinitesimal
but dangerous X-ray machines.
1. No amount of man-made radiation, external or internal, is "good" for
healthy, living things. Any amount of exposure does some harm, however sl ight.
2. Radiation is cumulative and irreversible.
To put it very unscientifically, you have just so much radiation
tolerance, and every time you are subjected to X rays or any other
kind of man-made radiation, you have drawn against your total
allowance. Some people have more tolerance than others, but,
ideally, the quantity of total body radiation to which a human being
is exposed during his lifetime should not be greater than that to
which he is subjected from the sun, stars and planets and radiation
arising from the minerals in the earth's surface.

64

ATOMIC SUICIDE?
3. There is no such thing as a peaceful use of atomic energy, if by "peaceful"
you mean "harmless."
Even the by-products of a peaceful nuclear reactor could be used in
one form or another for military purposes. Radiations inside atomic
plants are dangerous. Air escaping from the plants can become
contaminated. If water is used to shield or to cool the plant, it can
become contaminated. The waste materials—the by-products of
nuclear fission—are radioactive, some materials remaining highly
dangerous for centuries.
4. The more people exposed to radiation, the more damage to generations yet
unborn.
For years, many groups of scientists in many parts of the world
have issued appeals for a cessation of atomic explosions, on the
grounds that the fall-out of radioactive materials gradually is poisoning the earth. Because of the cloud of secrecy surrounding the
military facts of atomic energy and because some of these scientific
groups are politically suspect, many of these appeals have been
reported in the daily press as political rather than scientific dis cussions.
A careful study of the official reports of our own authorities,
however, should convince anyone that sooner or later the atomic
powers will have to stop releasing poisonous materials in the atmosphere. If they do not stop, and stop completely, they will have
achieved mutual annihilation just as surely as though they had
engaged in actual, all-out hydrogen warfare.
What is more, even if all bomb tests were stopped tomorrow, it is
estimated that the main part of the poisonous materials that already
have been released into the upper atmosphere will not have fallen on
us until 1970, and there will be a continuation of this noxious rain
long after that."

The following is quoted from the Christian Science Monitor—as written
by its Science editor, Robert C. Cowen:
"A special study group of leading American natural scientists has
concluded that there is no radiation danger to human life from the
present rate of atomic weapons tests. This cuts the technical ground
from under the repeated demands that such tests be

The World Voice

65

stopped because of the radioactive materials they release into the
atmosphere.
But, at the same time, these experts warn that the full worldwide
development of peaceful uses for the atom could produce more of a
radiation hazard in the form of radioactive wastes than would an allout atomic war. In fact, this "hot" waste disposal problem is growing
so quickly today that their report urges its immediate and urgent
consideration at the international level to determine and set up
adequate safeguards.
This report by responsible natural scientists should help to bring
more balanced thinking than has been evidenced in the past to bear
on the vexing question of whether or not the human race is
endangering its own future by releasing atomic radiations into its
environment.
The report was based on extensive studies by 145 natural scientists
conducted under the auspices of the National Academy of Sciences
and financed by a grant from the Rockefeller Foundation. The
studies were set up specifically to help resolve the worldwide
controversy over radiation hazards and to provide some useful data
in a field that is beset with ignorance and uncertainties."
The following is from the Washington Daily News, Monday, September
10, 1956, by Gene Shumate:
WE ARE BREATHING
ATOM-AGE AIR HERE
(It's Radioactive Most of the Time)
The air over Washington has been radioactive more than 70 per
cent of the time since 1951, a Naval Research Laboratory report said
today.
In 1953, it said, Washingtonians breathed pre-atomic air for only
60 days.
ATOMIC AGE
"We haven't had normal, clean air since before the atomic age —
or since we started testing atomic weapons at Yucca Flats, Nev.," Dr.
Herbert Friedman of the laboratory's Electron Optics Branch told
The News.
Dr. Friedman is one of the authors of the report.

66

ATOMIC SUICIDE?
It said the Navy has studied the air in a series of areas since
1949—Chicago, Washington, San Diego, San Francisco, Seattle,
Memphis, Puerto Rico, Panama, seven scattered Pacific isles, North
Africa, and Alaska.
Of all of them, the report said, Washington and Chicago were the
most radioactive.
DOSAGE IS SMALL
Dr. Friedman said the average dosage present in the air here is
only two-tenths of a roentgen—far from being immediately dangerous—"but we're not sure what the accumulative effect on man
will be."
It takes about 500 to 600 roentgens to kill a man outright, he said.
"There's a lot we don't know as yet about what effect breathing
even slightly radioactive air over extended periods will have on us,"
Dr. Friedman said. "We do know that certain isotopes up there are
bad actors."

The greatest and most powerful expression of fear from the use of
radioactivity which has yet been made by anyone among the higher
intellectuals, is the following world-broadcast appeal by Dr. Albert
Schweitzer Norwegian Nobel Committee, asking that "public opinion
demand an end to nuclear tests."
The New York Times, April 24, 1957.
SCHWEITZER URGES WORLD OPINION TO
DEMAND END OF NUCLEAR TESTS
Nobel Winner's Plea Broadcast in 50 Lands Says Alternative
Is Catastrophe for Mankind
OSLO, Norway, April 23—Dr. Albert Schweitzer has appealed to
the world to end nuclear tests.
The appeal of the 82-year-old missionary surgeon, philosopher and
musician, addressed to the Norwegian Nobel Prize Committee, was
broadcast today in about fifty countries, including most of those in
Europe. It was broadcast in Swahili from Nairobi and Japanese
stations carried it.

The World Voice

67

Dr. Schweitzer's message was read in Norwegian by Unnar Jahn,
chairman of the Norwegian Nobel Committee, who in 1952 bestowed the Nobel Peace Prize on Dr. Schweitzer. Translations of the
text were read in English, German, French and Russian on
Norwegian short-wave stations.
The impact of the warning was heightened for Norwegian listeners
because the broadcast followed by fifteen minutes a report of a
recent radioactive rain over Norway caused by Soviet nuclear
explosions.
The initiative for the broadcast came from Dr. Schweitzer himself.
The Norwegian state radio planned to send a reporter to his hospital
in Lambaréné, French Equatorial Africa, where Dr. Schweitzer lives
and works, to make a recording of the speech.
Dr. Schweitzer said he was too weak to read the appeal himself. It
was, therefore, decided that the message would be read in translation
and Dr. Schweitzer expressed the hope that it would reach the whole
world.
Dr. Schweitzer said his aim was to awaken public opinion before it
was too late. He warned that the human race was heading for a
catastrophe if nuclear explosions were continued. This catastrophe
must be prevented, he said.
"There can be no question of doing anything else, if only for the
reason that we cannot take the responsibility for the consequences it
might have for our descendants; they are threatened by the greatest
and most terrible danger," Dr. Schweitzer said.
He emphasized that to fail to consider the importance of radioactive elements created by man and their consequences would be a
folly "for which humanity would have to pay a terrible price." "We
are committing this folly in thoughtlessness," he said.
PUTS IT UP TO PUBLIC
Dr. Schweitzer asked why the United States, the Soviet Union and
Britain did not come to agreement to stop the tests. He believed the
reason was that there was no public opinion asking for it. Japan, he
added, is the only exception.
He accused "official and unofficial sources" of evading the problem when they assured that the increase in radioactivity of the air did
not exceed an amount the human body could tolerate without harm.
"Even if we are not directly affected by the radioactive material

68

ATOMIC SUICIDE?
in the air we are indirectly affected through that which has fallen
down, is falling down and will fall down," he declared.
He also stressed that not only was the health of the present
population threatened by internal radiation but also that of future
generations.
"The fact is that the cells of the reproductive organs are particularly vulnerable to radiation," he said.
Dr. Schweitzer concluded his warning by appealing to public
opinion in all nations to demand an agreement to stop the tests.
"The end of further experiments with atomic bombs would be like
the early sunrays of hope which suffering humanity is longing for,"
he said.
SCHWEITZER'S APPEAL TO END NUCLEAR TESTS
OSLO, Norway, April 23 (Reuters) —Following is the translation of
excerpts from a letter issued by Dr. Albert Schweitzer through the Norwegian
Nobel Committee, asking that public opinion demand an end to nuclear tests:
Since March 1, 1954, hydrogen bombs have been tested, by the
Americans at the Pacific island of Bikini in the Marshall Group and
by the Russians in Siberia.
After the explosion of a hydrogen bomb . . . something remained
in the air, namely an incalculable number of radioactive particles
emitting radioactive rays. This was also the case with the uranium
bombs which were dropped on Nagasaki and Hiroshima and those
with which subsequent tests were made. However, because these
bombs had smaller size and less effect compared with the hydrogen
bombs, one hardly paid any attention to this fact.
Since radioactive rays of sufficient amount and strength have
harmful effects on the human body, one started discussing if the
radiation resulting from the explosions that had already taken place
represented a danger which would increase with new explosions.
RACE HELD ENDANGERED
In the course of the three and a half years that have passed since
then representatives of the physical and medical sciences have been
studying the problem. The material collected, although far

The World Voice

69

from complete, allows us to draw the conclusion that radiation
resulting from the explosions which have already taken place,
represents a danger to the human race, a danger not to be under rated, and that further explosions of atomic bombs will increase this
danger to an alarming extent.
I raise my voice, together with those of others who have lately felt
it their duty to act, in speaking and writing, as warners of the danger.
My age and the sympathy that I have gained for myself through
advocating the idea of reverence for life, permit me to hope that my
appeal may contribute to the preparing of the way for the insight so
urgently needed.
There are two kinds of atom bombs, uranium bombs and hydrogen bombs. To these two bombs has recently been added the
cobalt bomb, a .kind of super-atom bomb. The effect of this bomb is
estimated to be many times stronger than that of hydrogen bombs
having been made till now.
The explosion of an atom bomb creates an inconceivably large
number of exceedingly small particles of radioactive elements.
PARTICLES HAVE LONG LIFE
Of these elements, some exist for hours, some for weeks, or
months, or years, or millions of years, undergoing continuous decay.
They float in the higher strata of air as clouds of radioactive dust.
The heavy particles fall down first. The lighter ones will stay in the
air for a longer time or come down with the rain and the snow. How
long it will take before everything carried up in the air by the
explosions which have taken place till now has disappeared, no one
can say with any certainty. According to some estimates, this will be
the case not earlier than thirty or forty years from now.
What we can state with certainty, however, is that the radioactive
clouds will constantly be carried by the winds around the globe and
that some of the dust, by its own weight, or by being brought down
by rain, snow, mist and dew, little by little, will fall down on the hard
surface of the earth, into the rivers and into the oceans.
Particularly dangerous are the elements combining long life with a
relatively strong efficiency radiation. Among them strontium-90
takes the first place. It is present in very large amounts in

70

ATOMIC SUICIDE?
the radioactive dust. Cobalt-60 must also be mentioned as particularly dangerous.
WATER MADE RADIOACTIVE
The radioactivity in the air, increased through these elements, will
not harm us from the outside, not being strong enough to penetrate
the skin. But the danger which has to be stressed above all the others
is the one which arises from our drinking radioactive water and our
eating radioactive food as a consequence of the increased
radioactivity in the air.
Following the explosions on Bikini and Siberia rain falling over
Japan was, from time to time, been so radioactive that the water
from it cannot be drunk. And not only there: reports of radioactive
rainfall are coming from all parts of the world where analyses have
recently been made. In several places, the water has proved to be so
radioactive that it was unfit for drinking.
Wherever radioactive rainwater is found, the soil is also radioactive—and in a higher degree. The soil is more radioactive not only
by the downpour, but also from radioactive dust falling on it. And
with the soil the vegetation will also have become radioactive.
The radioactive elements deposited in the soil pass into the plants
where they are stored. This is of importance, for as a result of this
process it may be the case that we are threatened by a considerable
amount of radioactive elements.
The radioactive elements in grass, when eaten by animals whose
meat is used for food, will be absorbed and stored in our bodies.
What this storing of radioactive material implies is clearly
demonstrated by the observations made when, at one occasion, the
radioactivity of the Columbia River in North America was analyzed.
The radioactivity was caused by the atomic plants at Hanford, which
produce atomic energy for industrial purposes, and which empty
their waste water into the river.
FINDS PROBLEM EVADED
The radioactivity of the river water was insignificant. But the
radioactivity of the river plankton was 2,000 times higher, that of the
ducks eating the plankton 40,000 times higher, that of the fish
150,000 times higher. In young swallows fed on insects caught by

The World Voice

71

their parents in the river, the radioactivity was 500,000 times higher
and in the egg yolks of water birds more than 1,000,000 times higher.
From official and unofficial sources we have been assured, time
and time again, that the increase in radioactivity of the air does not
exceed the amount which the human body can tolerate without any
harmful effects. This is just evading the problem.
Even if not directly affected by the radioactive material in the air,
we are indirectly affected through that which has fallen down, is
falling down, and will fall down. We are absorbing this through
radioactive drinking water and through animal and vegetable
foodstuffs, to the same extent as radioactive elements are stored in
the vegetation of the region in which we live. Unfortunately for us,
nature hoards what is falling down from the air.
None of the radioactivity of the air, brought into existence by the
exploding of atom bombs is so unimportant that it may not, in the
long run, become a danger to us through increasing the amount of
radioactivity stored in our bodies.
What are the diseases caused by internal radiation? The same
diseases that are known to be caused by external radiation.
They are mainly serious blood diseases. If the cells in the bone
marrow are damaged by radiation they will produce too few or
abnormal, degenerating blood corpuscles. Both cases lead to blood
diseases and, most often, to death. These were the diseases that
killed the victims of X-rays and radium rays.
It was one of these diseases that attacked the Japanese fishermen
who were surprised in their vessel by radioactive ashes falling down
240 miles from Bikini after the explosion of an hydrogen bomb.
With one exception, they were all saved, being strong and relatively
mildly affected, through continuous blood transfusions.
DAMAGE TO DESCENDANTS
In the cases cited, the radiation came from the outside. It is un fortunately very probable that internal radiation affecting the bone
marrow and lasting for years will have the same effect, particularly
since the radiation goes from the bone tissue to the bone marrow.
Not our own health only is threatened by internal radiation, but
also that of our descendants. The fact is that the cells of the
reproductive organs are particularly vulnerable to radiation. To

72

ATOMIC SUICIDE?
the profound damage of these cells corresponds a profound damage
to our descendants.
To find out how the existing radioactive radiation has affected
posterity, comparative studies have been made between the
descendants of doctors who have been using X-ray apparatus for
years and those of doctors who have not. Among the descendants of
radiologists, a percentage of still births of 1.403 was found, while the
percentage among the nonradiologists was 1.222.
In the first group, 6.01 per cent of the children had congenital
defects, while only 4.82 per cent in the second.
It must be remembered that even the weakest of internal radiation
can have harmful effects on our descendants.
The total effect of the damage done to descendants of ancestors
who have been exposed to radioactive rays will not, in accordance
with the laws of genetics, be apparent in the generations coming
immediately after us. The full effects will appear only 100 or 200
years later.
We are forced to regard every increase in the existing danger
through further creation of radioactive elements by atom bomb
explosions as a catastrophe for the human race, a catastrophe that
must be prevented under every circumstance.
There can be no question of doing anything else, if only for the
reason that we cannot take the responsibility for the consequences it
might have for our descendants.
They are threatened by the greatest and most terrible danger.
That radioactive elements created by us are found in nature is an
astounding event in the history of the earth. And of the human
race. To fail to consider its importance and its consequences would
be a folly for which humanity would have to pay a terrible price.
When public opinion has been created in the countries concerned
and among all nations, an opinion informed of the dangers involved
in going on with the tests and led by the reason which this
information imposes, then the statesmen may reach an agreement to
stop the experiments.
A public opinion of this kind stands in no need of plebiscites or of
forming of committees to express itself. It works through just being
there.
The end of further experiments with atom bombs would be like
the early sun-rays of hope which suffering humanity is longing for.

The World Voice

73

New York Times, April 21st. 1957.
EUROPE'S NUCLEAR FEAR
An Analysis of Changed Sentiment Toward Danger of Atomic Warfare
PARIS, April 20—Europe is growing alarmed about nuclear
bombs. The mood today has markedly changed from that of the late
decade, when the United States monopoly or predominance in
nuclear power was widely regarded as assuring peace and the security
of this Continent.
Nuclear weapons are no longer considered a beneficent invention.
At the very moment when the United States officially promised
nuclear arms to its European allies, eighteen West German physicists
joined in declaring they opposed the use of such arms by their
country and would do nothing to further nuclear armament. They
said current tactical nuclear weapons were as destructive as the
original atomic bomb dropped on Hiroshima and that their
acquisition by West Germany might increase its danger.
Europeans are becoming convinced that nuclear weapons are a
menace even if there never is a nuclear war. A committee of the
Atomic Scientists Association in Britain has reported that as a result
of the hydrogen bombs exploded so far one person in 50,000 is likely
to get cancer in the next few decades from the strontium entering his
bones. This is an unproved estimate but represents a scientific
judgment based on the assumption that the likelihood of cancer is
proportionate to the radioactivity in the bones.
Pending more conclusive evidence and fuller agreement among
experts, many Europeans favor suspension of the bomb tests that
produce radioactive "fall-out" of greater or lesser malignancy. British
statesmen find it more difficult to defend their nuclear bomb tests,
which are only beginning.
Soviet bomb tests have led to disturbing atmospheric results in
Japan. After measuring the radioactive fall-out this week, Japanese
scientists warned of the danger and opinion grew in favor of a ban
on all nuclear tests by all nations. An official Japanese protest to
Moscow brought the reply that the Soviet Union was willing to
suspend the tests if the Western powers agreed.
Thus a new effort was made, in keeping with years of Soviet
propaganda, to put the blame on the West.

74

ATOMIC SUICIDE?
Western scientists were the first to develop the atomic bomb. A
Western power, the United States, was the first to use it in war. The
Western alliance, the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, has based
its strategy on the assumption it will use nuclear weapons to meet an
aggression. This decision was reasserted on Thursday by Field
Marshal Viscount Montgomery, Deputy Commander in Chief of the
Atlantic forces in Europe.
Thus the Western powers are faced with a moral and strategic
dilemma that troubles the consciences of many in Europe.
If the West foregoes use of nuclear weapons it will be hopelessly
inferior on land to the Soviet Union in Europe and to Communist
China in Asia. Both these powers have enormous armies that the
West cannot match. The West is not even trying to match them but,
as the recent British defense decision showed, is reducing armies in
favor of nuclear weapons.
THE CONTAMINATION PROBLEM
But if the Western powers adhere to their policy of basing their
defense on nuclear weapons in the hope of thus preventing war, they
will risk playing into the hands of Soviet propaganda and causing the
vast uncommitted Middle East and Far East to believe the West is
responsible for a nuclear arms race.
At the same time the Western governments probably will face
growing criticism from their own peoples, who fear not only a
nuclear war but even the periodic nuclear bomb tests that con taminate the atmosphere that people breathe and the plants and
animals they eat.
Western leaders have sought to limit armaments, including nuclear
armaments, but have been unable to find any system of inspection to
insure enforcement of any agreement. But it is urged in Europe that
no such system is needed to drop bomb tests, since all such t ests by
the Soviet Union are immediately detected and announced in
Washington.

Much concern was felt throughout the country last July (1956) by the
sensational testimony given by Lieut. General James A. Gavin before the
senate subcommittee investigating air power. Lieut. General Gavin was
asked by Senator James F. Duff, of Pennsylvania, what in his opinion,
would be the effect of hydrogen bombs dropped on Russia.

The World Voice

75

Gavin replied that deaths would run into several hundred millions, and,
depending on which way the wind blew, would extend well into the
Japanese, and perhaps the Philippine Islands areas or well back up into
Western Europe.
That testimony brought forth this reply from Senator Mike Mansfield,
of Montana: "The horrible conclusion given by Lieut. General Gavin
should make us realize that in this difficult era, with the world's scientists
running riot, we are faced with an uneasy peace based on the idea of
mutual terror.
"It would be my sincere hope that the administrations of the world will
take into the most serious and deliberate consideration the dreadful
reality of Lieut. General Gavin's reply and explore ways and means
through which the peoples of the world can be protected from terrible
devastations over which they have no control."
These reports from scientific sources speak fluently regarding the
danger to every human being if radioactivity is used. After reading them
do you feel assured that you and your children are safe from it? Are you
willing that it shall be tried out, knowing as you do, that the human race
would be the guinea pig for the most dangerous experiment ever tried by
man, and his last one, if he is wrong?
In reading these statements you probably noticed that the small
experimental plant at Arco, Idaho, blew up. It could not even be
approached for six months afterwards. Accidents happen to a big plant as
well as a small one. Does it make you feel comfortable to think that a
plant like the Hanford one, or the one to be built near New York, or
Detroit, might blow up?
When you think of the world concern and care given to protect people
from the two pounds of radium, which was all the world had twenty years
ago, does it make you feel comfortable to know that 8,000 tons of much
more deadly uranium salts are produced each year from a present stock
pile of 600,000 tons of uranium ore? Also, do you feel that it is quite safe
to continue multiplying the effects you have read about for a hundred,
two hundred, or three hundred years, which we would have to do if
radioactivity is to be the next world fuel? Do you

74

ATOMIC SUICIDE?

realize that the government is spending $2,000,000,000 a year in atomic
experiments, and private industry is spending an equal amount, or more,
for a dangerous and costly fuel when it could quite easily have a perfectly
safe and inexpensive fuel in abundance for not more than $100,000 and a
little knowledge of the true nature of electricity?
Before making your own decision whether or no you would vote in
favor of radioactivity, read once more what Dr. Ralph Lapp said about
the atom bomb tests distribution of strontium in the atmosphere. He
said: "That at the present rate of H. bomb tests, if continued and
probably accelerated, by 1962 there would be enough radioactive
strontium committed to the stratosphere to produce a 100% maximum
permissible amount in every person on the planet." Do read his report
with great mental concentration. No other report gives much concern to
what he calls "hold up." Again we say that our primary danger is in that
stratosphere "hold up," and not in the "fall out." Dr. Lapp estimates th at
this "hold up" will fall at about 10% a year. If this is true the human race
could not survive another ten years of bomb tests such as the United
States and Russia are conducting.
We are not in full agreement with Dr. Lapp concerning the 10% fall to
earth, for the potential of that "hold up" is lower than the potential of a
pressure ten miles up, and it is slowly expanding to still lower potential.
The already too heavy "hold up" will blanket the atmosphere layer and
eat into it slowly, but irrevocably and thus thin our life giving and life
protecting blue envelope. If Dr. Lapp is right, the human race would
already be doomed.
Again we urge everyone to obey the advice given by Dr. Lapp, which
we quote from his report as follows: "Education about the biological
effects of nuclear radiation is an absolute prerequisite if the human race is
to survive."

PART II

PRELUDE
In the heart of every man is the desire for love—for happiness, peace
and prosperity. In the hearts of nations of men is the One-World desire
for international unity. Universal Brotherhood is the ultimate world-goal.
How far are we from that goal? The distance is far ahead for the human
race. Its distance is measurable only by the yardstick of LOVE, and love
has not yet entered the doorway of human relations, and will not until
unity opens the door for it to come in.
Unity means Oneness. Unity balances the mate-hood of all pairs of
people and equalizes their transactions in giving and regiving. Civilization
has not yet progressed to the point where UNITY, through the GIVING
and REGIVING of LOVE, can even be comprehended by more than a
few of man's millions.
Man's greatest lesson is to learn how to give. We are still in the
barbarian age of taking—of even taking life. The spiritual age is dawning,
however. Its doors are slightly ajar, but that is all, for our World-House is
erected upon the sands of disunity. The product of disunity is fear. A
house divided against itself by disunity and fear must fall. Peace,
happiness and prosperity cannot enter a divided house of fear.
If you now ask when peace, happiness and prosperity will come to
man, we say to you that it will come when the Light of Love unites all
men as ONE, and that shall come to pass only when man ceases to create
fear.

CHAPTER IV

The True Nature of This Mind and
Motion Universe
I
The time has come in man's unfolding when he should have more
knowledge of the nature of this electric universe of motion. He has never
truly known it, for he has but sensed its shadow. The real meaning of
substance has never been known by man for what it is. He only knows it
for what he senses it to be.
Actually we live in two universes—the invisible zero universe of
CAUSE, and the visible universe of EFFECT. We have sensed the
EFFECT and believed in its reality. We have never yet known the universe of
CAUSE. It is time that we begin to know God's invisible universe which
is in absolute control of the visible universe. Man will never solve the
riddle of the universe until he fully knows and comprehends the zero
universe which he can in no way hear or see. He can know it, however,
and in so knowing he can, likewise, know God. He can even prove the
fact of the omnipresent God in his laboratory. Nor shall man ever solve
the riddle of his own Self—his own Identity, until he knows that he,
himself, is as eternal as God is eternal. When man knows that he is Mind
and that his body is his Mind-Creation, as the whole universal body is the
Mind-Creation of God, he will then know what the consummate mystic
of two thousand years ago meant when He said: "I and My Father are
ONE."
That is man's first great lesson. For ages he has believed that his body
is his Identity, and that his Mind is in his body but limited to the
boundaries of his body. It has never occurred
79

80

ATOMIC SUICIDE?

to him that his Mind is IN—but not OF his body. It has not yet occurred
to him that his body is but a "tape recording" of what his Mind is
"dictating" into it. He has not yet begun to realize that there is but ONE
CREATOR in this universe, nor that he is ONE with that ONE. When
man's first great lesson has been learned through the awakening of that
divine Cosmic spark, which has for so long been dormant in him, he will
then have reached his first stage of God-awareness which all men seek,
even though long ages pass before any man even suspects that he is
seeking the Light of his divine Self. When that great lesson is fully learned he
will then know that he lives eternally and cannot die—and that his body manifests
his thinking for awhile, then rests for an interval before again manifesting his
thinking from the point where it rested in his yesterday.
II
As a prelude to this very brief outline of the principles upon which our
universe is founded we will reduce that entire principle to one sentence,
from which we will not depart during this entire narrative. We will but
expand this one basic principle by describing its processes. Herein
follows that one sentence:
The Father-Mother of Creation divides His sexless unity into sex-divided pairs of
father and mother bodies, for the purpose of uniting them to create other pairs of
father and mother bodies in eternal sequences forever.
This is the whole simple plan of Creation. We will now begin to unfold
the seeming complexities of its really very simple processes whic h so
mightily deceive our senses. If our comprehension is strong enough we
will be able to continually see a simple thread, which is repeated over and
over in every effect of motion throughout all Nature, and throughout
every event and experience of life. We will endeavor to enable you to see
that simple continuing thread by repeating it many times in many ways.
III
Human progress is always marked by change. As civilization unfolds —or
grows—its concepts change to keep pace with that

The True Nature of This Mind and Motion Universe

81

growth. Ages of marked wisdom become archaic to ages of greater wisdom. The last
two or three decades of progress have moved the world ages ahead of the
last century, and the last two or three years have promised to open n ew
doors into that invisible universe where The Creator awaits man's
recognition and awareness of His omnipresence.
Science is discovering God's invisible Magnetic Mind universe through
little peepholes into it through a newly dawning Intelligence, but science
is not yet aware of what it is discovering. Science calls it anti -matter as
yet. That is wonderful—and hopeful. To have discovered and believed
that there is a something outside of matter, which is seemingly the source
of matter emerging from it, is so wonderful that it seems like a thousand
years of progress in a day.
Matter is motion. The anti-matter, which now engages the serious
attention of science, is stillness. Some scientists say it is pure energy. If
matter, which is but motion, is energy, and anti-matter, which is not motion, is
pure energy, what kind of energy is that which is impure? What does it
mean? The time has come when it is imperative that science must divorce mo tion and
energy as one identity, and regard matter as but the product of the Energy Source.
We wish to demonstrate to you that the anti-matter stillness, which
science is discovering, is the Creator's Energy Source. Yes—there is an
invisible zero universe. It is the Mind-universe of Magnetic Light. For
scientific purposes in explaining the construction of matter, we will name
it the omnipresent universal vacuum. The universal vacuum is the expansion end of
the universal piston, and gravity is the compression end.
As electricity is the creator of focal points, which we call gravity, and
because compression is the sole office of electricity, every oscillation of
the electric current of Creation is an interchange between the stillness of
the universal vacuum of God's Mind-universe of CAUSE, and the electric
universe of motion, to produce EFFECT.
Each interchange between the invisible omnipresent universe where
motion begins and ends, and the visible transient universe, which
multiplies and divides the speed and power of motion,

82

ATOMIC SUICIDE?

is a cycle. Pulsing cycles constitute the heart beat of this universe, which
simulates Mind-Idea through pulsing cycles of two-way motion. Every
pulsation of the life principle of multiplying motion creates divided
electric male and female bodies, which seek rest in each other from the
strains and tensions of their division into pairs of opposites.
The supreme effort of this book is to have you comprehend that Creation is a
division of The Eternal One into countless twos of sex-conditioned opposites, which
eternally seek to void their division by uniting as One.
Creation is a Mind-imagined journey of electrically divided male and
female opposites in increasingly greater speed and power in the direction
of each other, where they unite in rest to re-divide, and return with ever
increasing speed and decreasing power, to the zero of rest in the
Magnetic Light of Mind from which they sprang into action. Creation is an
illusion which stimulates substance by multiplying the speed of centripetal mo tion, and
loses its appearance of substance by multiplying its centrifugal speed. If we prove
this new state of facts to be in accord with Nature's plan, it will obviously
be necessary to have very different concepts of the Nature of the
universe than those concepts which are now held by man.
IV
We herein print two diagrams to symbolize both ends of the
compression-expansion pump, which this universe is. We cannot move
our little finger without gaining the power to do so from the vacuum
Source of that power. We do not know that fact yet. We do not yet know
that we live, and breathe, and express our multiple desires only by
constantly taking power for each cycle from God and giving it back to
Him at each cycle's end. Man has not yet become aware of the fact that
he is but the motion within the divine Cosmic vacuum tube which sparks
its little light from out of its dark, and is, himself, that dark when his light
goes out. When man is fully aware of the fact that he eternally lives in God's
invisible Magnetic Light as One with it, and merely manifests life by action in the
electric universe,

The True Nature of This Mind and Motion Universe

83

he will then know that when action ceases it merely ceases without affecting him, even
as sound ceases without a f fecting him who made the sound.
One of these drawings symbolizes the Energy end of the Cosmic
Piston from which gravity emerges in moving pairs to simulate energy by
motion. The other drawing symbolizes the effects of motion at the
compressed end of the Cosmic Piston.
V
It is self-evident that all motion springs from rest and returns to rest
for eternal repetition in sequences which we call electric frequencies. It is
also self-evident that all motion springs from out of the dark in divided
pairs and multiplies their gaseous beginnings into dense bodies of
incandescent suns, then disappears into the dark through the gases of
themselves.
WHERE and WHAT is this invisible dark from which the light of motion
appears, and into which it disappears? Is not this the supreme question of all the
ages? Can there be any other answer to that question than the fact that Creation
emerges from its Creator?
The .greatest thinkers in science have repeatedly said that matter
emerges from space and is swallowed up by space in some unknown and
mysterious manner. The word space is rather a casual word to use in place
of the Creator. Likewise, it is a misleading word, for space is not an
expanse of something outside of matter. It is as omnipresent within
matter as it is without, and it is in control of matter from within as well
as from without.
Future generations of enlightened men will cease thinking of this
electric universe as being matter and substance. They will know it for what it
is, which is motion only. When the idea of substance has passed out of our
thinking, and simulation of substance by motion will have taken its place,
mankind will then comprehend his Mind-unity with the Universal Mind.
And he will know his body for what it is—merely an instrument for
creating form-images of Mind-thinking.
The Creator is the Supreme principle of Unity in His Oneness

84

ATOMIC SUICIDE?

FIG. 6 symbolizes the uncreated universe, the zero vacuum universe of rest,
from which the objective electric universe of motion emerges to manifest
eternal life by simulating it in cycles of motion. This is God's omnipresent
universe of Idea, and Desire for the expression of Idea, by moving forms which
symbolize Idea. This is the universe of The Imaginer Who builds forms in the
image of His imagining for giving and regiving in cyclic intervals, which
unknowing man calls life and death.
This is the omniscient universe of eternal MIND-QUALITIES from which
transient electric QUALITIES emerge to simulate the qualities of Mind —
Magnetic

Light—Knowledge—Idea—Energy—Life—Soul—Love—Truth—

BeautyRhythm—Balance—Law—Silence—Rest and Stillness.
This is the abiding place of eternal MAN who is ONE with GOD. It is God's
kingdom of heaven within man, which the Nazarene bade men to seek.

of Being. The supreme urge back of His divided pairs is to seek unity in
each pair. This is as true of the elements of matter, as it is true of l iving
organic beings. Since all matter is divided into mate-pairs, is it not time
that the Father-Motherhood principle of Oneness in the Creator, be
recognized as the desire to attain that father-motherhood oneness by all
of the divided mate-pairs of all Creation? Every particle of inorganic and
organic matter in the universe is perpetually seeking unity with its
balanced mate. There is no exception to this fact in all Creation. Sodium
seeks balanced unity in chlorine. It does not seek it in aluminum,
phosphorous or silicon. Nor do any of

The True Nature of This Mind and Motion Universe

85

EFFECT
FIG. 7 symbolizes the transient, created quantities of divided pairs of units of
electric motion which emerge from the vacuum zero universe to manifest its
qualities for timed intervals, and are then dissolved into its equilibrium for re emergence. These seeming quantities are Electricity—Compression—Form—
Lightspectrum—Expansion—Sex—Sound—Heat and Motion.
These multiple quantities seem to exist. They appear and disappear to again
reappear, to simulate the qualities of life, energy and idea which they seem to be,
but are not. This is the "motion-picture" universe of simulation and illusion
which dramatizes the idea of REALITY by electrically projecting the thoughtimaged-forms of Mind—Idea upon the imagined-screen of space, which Nature
is.
There is no life, energy, knowledge, idea, truth, intelligence or any other quality
of Mind or thought, in the motion which man calls matter and substance , and
mistakes for reality. It is time that man realizes that there is nothing,
whatsoever, in this visible universe but motion, and that REALITY exists only
in the vacuum from which motion emerges as heat to simulate the Light of
Reality.

the elements on the red, alkaline side of the spectrum, seek union with
each other, nor do those on the blue, acid side seek union with each
other.
If this search for balanced mates is universal in all bodies of matter,
and if the division of an equilibrium into polarized pairs is the effect
which electricity produces, why do we not recognize the sex principle as
the basis of all electrically divided, and pressure conditioned matter, and
discard the old text-book idea of two kinds of electricity, one which repels
and the other

86

ATOMIC SUICIDE?

which attracts, as being the basis of matter and motion? See Fig. 8.
The Coulomb law would be more understandable under this concept,
for, naturally, males do not seek union with males, and two red, or two
blue sides of the spectrum do not make a complete spectrum. Such an
inconsistent concept should be no longer applicable in a progressive
world of slowly unfolding intelligence. The Coulomb law of attraction of
opposites and repulsion of likes, has no relation, whatsoever, to Natural
law. Nature does not attract, nor does it repel. Pairs of opposites in
Nature are projected centripetally toward each other by the light mirrors
of wave-field projectors of light images, which must await further
explanation in the very brief description of the geometry of space that we
can include in this book. This basic new science is unknown as yet but we
are preparing to leave full records of it for posterity if—and when—
posterity shall be ready for it. Suffice it for here to say that all mat es
which are approaching each other for union are electrically forced to
approach each other from the outside. They are not "attracted" together
from the inside. They cannot help being forced. They are being wound up
together electrically in spiral vortices. They must inevitably collide and
become one even as a threaded screw is forced to interpenetrate an
oppositely threaded nut. This simile is a good one in other ways. It
exemplifies the red and blue of the spectrum and the red and blue of sex
division. The red interpenetrates the blue in all elements up to carbon.
Beyond carbon the blue interpenetrates the red. This is also an unknown
basic characteristic of the creative process, for no text book of science
even mentions it.
The Coulomb law has been fundamental for decades. Those who still
desire to cling to it must deny the Einstein Equation of 1905, for both of
these contradictory laws cannot be true. One or the other must be wrong.
VI
All motion in all this universe is based upon the fact that the sexless
condition of stillness has been divided into two sexed

The True Nature of This Mind and Motion Universe

FIG. 8 Nature knows no other process than sex division and sex unity.

87

88

ATOMIC SUICIDE?

The True Nature of This Mind and Motion Universe

89

conditions. The division begins its tension at the cathode and multiplies
that tension as the division extends from the cathode toward the anode.
Electricity thus creates tensions and strains, which we call electric
potential. Electric potential is the measure of compression at any one
point in the universe. Gravity is evidenced wherever compression from
without is maximum. Gravity is a focal point from which matter desires to explode
outwardly. Gravity does not pull inwardly from within as the deceptive illusion of
Nature would have you believe. Neither is it the attractive force which
Newton's senses were deceived into believing, for a center of gravity is a
point of maximum electric potential. Gravity never changes. It is never
more or less. It is maximum everywhere. It is electric potential which
changes by multiplying and dividing the measure of power it is able to
express by drawing it from its gravity center of control. It is like the
power of a man who can draw but little from the great omnipotence
which centers him, as compared with another man whose knowledge
enables him to draw more of it. Electric potential is the tension caused by the
electric division of the ONE universal condition of rest into two unbalanced
conditions of motion.
Polarity and sex are one. The two poles which unite are male and
female opposites in all matter. The idea that sex is solely a characteristic
of organic bodies is not a true concept. Sodium and chlorine are as male
and female as man and woman are male and female. Every particle of
matter in the universe is either male or female, and these pairs are
electrically projected together in the ratios of force which Newton gave
to the acceleration of gravity, and upon a multiplication of speed and
potential principle, which Einstein gave in his Equation of 1905.
If, therefore, all motion is solely for the purpose of either seeking sex union or sex
division, why should we not immediately remodel our thinking to conform with
Nature's processes and now think of our divided, double pressured universe as an electrically sex conditioned one?

90

ATOMIC SUICIDE?

Illustrating the Father-Mother Principle of building bodies by dividing light
into polarized units, and reproducing bodies by uniting two oppositely projected
units into one by centripetal compression. POLARITY and sex are ONE. Sex
and electric potential are ONE.

The True Nature of This Mind and Motion Universe

91

The cathode in Nature is the still point of Magnetic White Lig ht of Mind
from which motion begins to compress in two opposite directions to create sex divided bodies. Gravity begins when compression begins. Polarization and
compression are ONE.

92

ATOMIC SUICIDE?

This drawing shows the method and process of interchange between the zero
universe of Mind and the multiple universe of motion. Study all other drawings
and relate them to these two. The more you comprehend them the more you
will also comprehend that life is but fast motion and that death is a cessation of
motion.

VII
The division of sexless Oneness into pairs could not be a part of
Nature's process without also dividing the Oneness of Light. God's
Magnetic Light is white because it is still. It has no tensions or strains in
it, for it is not divided. It is invisible to the senses because it has no
motion in it. The moment motion begins the Light of the Creator's
energy is divided into pairs which multiply their red and blue intensities
in the ratio of their extension from their cathode beginnings, just as
electric potential multiplies its intensity for the same reason. If, there-

The True Nature of This Mind and Motion Universe

93

This shows how the heartbeat piston operates between the vacuity of the
Creator's Magnetic Light universe of Mind-energy and the potential of the
electrically pressured universe to create cycles of two-way motion. The more you
can comprehend the secret of God's Mind-control over His Creation, which is
His universal 5ody, the more you will be able to control your body, for you will
then know that God's Mind and yours are ONE.

fore, the Creator electrically divides His One pressureless, motionless
Light into two oppositely pressured lights of motion, is it not imperative
that we associate these two similar effects rise from the same cause, and
judge them as ONE. Should we not recognize the fact that these two
colliding light pressures wind up together, as a bolt threads into a nut, or
more properly as one spiral spring intertwines into another? Is it not
logical, therefore, to realize that the interpenetrating half of the spectrum
is red, and the outer half is blue? That is the way we

94

ATOMIC SUICIDE?

A study of Fig. 18 together with the bar magnet diagrams and other polarity
diagrams shown in Figs. 11 to 16 will prepare you for a better understanding of
the nature of electricity and the electric current.

find it in Nature. The inner core is the red of its heat and the outer layers
are the blue of space into which the red core projects its heat to expand
it. The outer layers then cool it and thus create imprisoned bodies whose
sole desire is to escape imprisonment. Beyond carbon the inner core
reverses to blue.
That is the way it is all through Nature. Compressed motion heats
bodies which endeavor to escape. Expanded cold freezes bodies to keep
them from escaping. That is the principle of body-forming. That is the
principle of growth from a seed to a tree. The seed generates heat from
the moisture of the sun-warmed ground. The seed explodes in its
endeavor to escape from its compression prison. The explosion creates
heat which is cooled and that which unfolds is refolded. Cell by cell is
thus added by the interchange of motion between red light and blue, and
between heat and cold as the father interpenetrates the mother womb of
Nature to generate bodies, and the bodies escape from their wombs to
return to their source.
As we thus unfold Nature's processes and her way of working you will gradually
comprehend that there is no place in God's Cosmogony for such a concept as negative
electricity, or negatively "charged" bodies.
We live in a universe in which all creating, charging, polarizing,
compressing and heating bodies manifest LIFE, and all discharging,
depolarizing, expanding and cooling bodies manifest

The True Nature of This Mind and Motion Universe

95

DEATH. One cannot say that a dying body is negatively charged, for a
charging body is positive. It is living. Your car battery can be charging
from its generator, and simultaneously discharging, from its use, but if
you had no generator in your car the battery would discharge its charge
until electricity ceased in it. While it is dying you would not even then say
that it is negatively charged, for it would still be positively charged until it
could no longer move. We do not say "negative sound" or "silent sound "
when it is ceasing, or has ceased. Nor do we say "negative warmth," or
"cold warmth," when a hot iron is cooling, or has cooled. Nor do we say
"negative life," when a man is dying, or is dead.
Electricity compresses and ceases to compress, but we do not then say
that it is "negatively compressed." It is for that reason we put a positive
sign wherever an electric condition is existent, but there is no need for
any sign unless there could be two which indicate sex, and two which
indicate charge and discharge. When motion ceases electricity ceases. It is not
then negative electricity—as death is not negative life. In all of these charging and
discharging effects the tensions of the color spectrum parallel the
tensions of electric potential. That is why they should be considered
together.
If this change in our thinking is true to Nature, there can be only one kind of
electricity—positive electricity, meaning the

96

ATOMIC SUICIDE?

power to charge or compress. It necessarily and logically follows that .a
negative electricity would be impossible in an electrically polarized
universe in which both divided mates are equal. It also would be
unnecessary if the other end of the compression pump, which this
universe is, is the universal vacuum. Shall we call this new thinking, or is it
but changed thinking? Shall we concede that early observers who arrived at
such conclusions in the infancy of scientific research, were right, without
the possibility of being mistaken? Or can we not consider them as torch
bearers, rather than anchors?
It is in this sense that we present quite a different picture of the
universe than the old one, which early observers sincerely and
conscientiously gave to us as the best they knew in those early days. We
cannot present the new concept of the Nature of the universe in the
terminology which sprang from old concepts, however, so we beg of our
readers that you realize the necessity of so doing is not critical of past
contributions to world progress, but are only adding to it by changing old
concepts to fit new illumining, which time and research have made pos sible. We feel that this explanation is necessary because some of these
new changes of concept are so radically different from traditional training
and thinking.
We repeat, however, that the main purpose of this book is to give this
new knowledge in the interest of world-survival only at this time, and is
not given as a text book of new scientific thinking for educational
purposes. That will come later, and in other ways, such as we are
gradually giving to our students. For this reason these writings are brief,
but brief as they are, they will throw more light upon the new age of
transmutation, which would surely follow a change from the old concepts
of matter and motion to the new concepts briefly outlined herein.
Transmutation needs but the comprehension of a few men of vision, men
whose minds are not fixedly closed to make it a reality.
Transmutation is the simplest of all the principles of Nature—ten
thousand times more simple than what is now being dangerously, and
expensively done. The first step toward it is to

The True Nature of This Mind and Motion Universe

97

discover that matter and motion is tonal—and thoroughly controllable.
The elements are not substances. They are but states of motion, which
can be controlled by knowledge and electric power. The present concept,
which makes it necessary to knock out an electron from one element to
transmute it to another, is contrary to Nature's working. No one would
think of trying to knock out one part of a sound to make it into another
sound, or to take an arm from a man to transmute him into a horse. That
is what science is trying to do, however, by knocking an electron from
mercury to produce gold. There are no electrons in the elements to knock
out, in any case, as we shall see.
Nature's patterns, species and sexes can be modified but they are the same in kind.
Transmutation means modification through knowledge of how to control
that modification, which is as simple as the retuning of a harp string by
increasing its vibration frequencies. Nature divides, multiplies and
combines by the use of electricity. Man has all the electric power he
needs at his command. Every state of motion, and any combination of
those states, can be made use of by man if he but knows how Nature
does it. Every element can be retuned or divided into pairs, and the pairs
retuned. Every combination, such as the atmosphere, can be divided and
its pairs used separately or recombined as one wishes. Hydrogen, oxygen
or nitrogen, in combination, can be taken apart with ease and used
separately, or recombined, or modified at will. Likewise, salt water can
very simply be taken apart and recombined minus its salt, at will.
When Nature divides she always creates male and female mate pairs.
She then multiplies those mate pairs separately, or in union. She
multiplies sodium into potassium, then into calcium. She multiplies
fluorine into chlorine, then into bromine and again into iodine. Man
could do this same thing with any tonal element and even split them into
semi-tones. Man could also divide such elements as carbon and produce,
from carbon alone, five pairs of rustless, stainless metals of high melting
points, high malleability and conductivity. The elements are but the
alphabet of man to write what he chooses with its letters. They are but
the tonal notes upon the nine octave keyboard of the

98

ATOMIC SUICIDE?

Cosmic instrument with which he has but begun to compose the
symphonies of his desiring and his imagining.
Nature can create cyclones if it becomes conditioned for cyclones, but
man can control those conditions and divide them at his will. Likewise,
man can create rains wherever he wishes and in any amounts. The wo rld's
vast deserts can be forested with date palms and carpeted with a verdure
which would end dust storms forever, and add materially to the world
food supply. To enable man to do this he needs only the knowledge of
space-geometry, mathematics, the wave of gravity control, and the nature
of electric current.
The great power to transmute through Mind-control by Mind-knowing, is
man's when he finally knows CAUSE instead of being limited to the effects
of cause. When that day comes man will no longer need to use the limited
supply of the earth's fossil fuels, nor need he labor to procure them. The
age of transmutation can be but one year away if man chooses to open
his mind to new concepts, or, otherwise, it may be three thousand years
away. CAUSE can never be known by the study of its EFFECT in
motion. Cause is in knowing Mind, not in sensed-body. Cause lies within
the invisible universe which does not respond to the senses, and not in
the senses which can but sense motion and can never know.
The senses forever look out through the convexity or concavity of
pressure lenses and mirrors of a curved universe of two-way motion.
Distorted images and an upside-down universe is recorded upon the
senses. The inner vision is not electric. It is Magnetic. The cube mirro rs
of space are of zero curvature and do not distort. The Mind-conception
transcends the sense-objective, and is not deceived by illusion, for Mind
is the creator of illusion. Mind knows and projects its Light. Senses can but
reflect. They cannot know.
And so it is that man peers into microscopes, and telescopes. He builds
great laboratories for research into effects of things which move. He
gathers much information about their movements and develops great
skills in controlling the movements of moving things. He then reasons
and assembles, but reasoning

The True Nature of This Mind and Motion Universe

99

is not knowing—and assembling is not creating. But what does man KNOW?
Informing the senses of effects of motion does not awaken knowledge in
Mind. On the contrary all effects of motion are optical illusions, which
deceive the senses and cause men to form conclusions which are not true
to Nature.
It is now time that man must realize that the key to Nature's secrets can never be
found in the visible universe. It can only be found in the invisible universe which
creates and controls the visible. But we cannot know the invisible universe
because we cannot see it," man says. As the spiritual nature of man
unfolds he becomes aware of the fact that he can see one half of the
universe and never know it, and the other half he can know but cannot see.
We believe, also, that man can never find true happiness until he has
finally solved the full meaning of what life and death really are, instead of
the dread meaning which he has given to a belief in death, which has no
validity, whatsoever, in Nature. For these reasons we shall briefly define
God as we have pictured His Omnipresence and purpose in Lesson
Number 13 of our "SCIENCE OF MAN HOME STUDY COURSE."
This basic foundation of Creation will aid in comprehending the true
nature of electricity and gravitation.

CHAPTER V

Prelude—the Transformation of Man
When man shall at last know God he shall then be transformed.
Dynamic knowledge of the Identity and Presence of God within the
Soul of Man—and throughout all Nature is a necessary stage for the
human race to attain before it is possible for him to build an enduring
civilization of unity and brotherhood.
The only reason man has never known God is because he is still in his
intellectual infancy and his ideals and practices are still pagan and
barbarous.
To know God man must know what Light is, and energy, Magnetism,
electricity, gravitation and God's processes in the building of bodies
which manifest His Presence and His purposes. And he must know the
mysteries of life, death, and growth, and of the seed into which even the
giant oak disappears but still retains its identity. And he must know how
man retains his identity when he also disappears.
No man has yet known these things. The concepts of modern sages
regarding them are totally unlike God's processes. The conclusions of
man regarding them are the conclusions of his senses. His Mind has never
yet pierced their illusions. He still senses EFFECTS without knowing
their CAUSE.
These things you shall now know—and when you comprehend them
within your Inner Self you will then know God.
We shall now devote this entire chapter to the complete understanding
of the Identity and Presence of God. It has always been presumed th at
God is, and forever will be incomprehensible and improvable, because
He is invisible, and that which will not respond to human senses must be
beyond human knowing.
That is not true. The invisible can be KNOWN and COMPREHENDED even though it cannot be seen. One cannot see
100

Prelude—the Transformation of Man

101

gravity, but one can know and comprehend it, for one must obey it or perish.
Polarity, truth, silence and love cannot be seen but these invisible realities
constitute the great powers which rule the universe, and they too can be
KNOWN. Climaxing all these is your Mind. You cannot see your Mind,
nor ours, but you know that your Mind is the basis of you, and that it
controls your visible body. Likewise, you cannot see God's Mind yet you
know that this universe is His creation and that He rules it with a power
which you also cannot see, but you must obey it together with all creating
things.
Primate man demanded a God who could be seen. He worshipped the sun, then
made idols. Our present civilization is still pagan. It has never passed beyond that
stage. The great mass of mankind still conceives a huge objective manshaped God with
human emotions of wrath and vengeance.
It is time that the human race should know God as He I.S. A happy, progressive
and enduring race is impossible until that new dawn of Conscious awareness of His
ever-present Being is intimately close to us always. How far away from that day
are we? Out of the world's pagan thousands of millions there are but a
few who have begun to comprehend that the path to the Light of the
inner kingdom is illumined with Love, and that Love is inevitable and
irrevocable LAW which no one can violate and survive. Our present
almost primitive civilization is barbarian, in the respect that it is
attempting to survive, endure, be happy and prosperous by violating
God's Law of Love. Man has not yet learned that he cannot violate or
break God's Law, but that the Law can break him. When man thinks he is
breaking the law by hurting his brother, he is but fulfilling the law of
balance which regives to him the hurt which he has intended to inflict
upon another.
You shall now begin to know that great mystery which has for ages
hidden its face from man. That knowledge of the Identity of God will so
increase your spiritual unfolding that your inner-sensory perception will
lead you far into the path which leads to the "Brahmic Bliss," which
Buddha bade men seek, or "The kingdom of heaven," which Jesus told
man to seek. It is not

102

ATOMIC SUICIDE?

possible for this age of man to comprehend God unless false conceptions of electricity,
magnetism, gravitation, energy and the construction of the atom, as now conceived, are
eliminated and replaced with Nature's ways and processes.
All of man's fundamental conceptions have been the result of forming
conclusions which have been based upon the outer-vision of the senses,
and not upon the inner-vision of the Mind. The senses see illusion and
are mightily deceived. Mind-vision does not deceive for CAUSE begins there, and
EFFECT is but its product.
The truth of all fundamentals of Nature is just the reverse of the
conclusions of science, just as the reflections in a mirror are the reverse
of their cause. These conclusions began with someone rubbing amber and
glass with wool and silk, and progressed through Newton and other very
much deceived observers up to the fantasy of Neils Bohr's impossible
atom, which has no resemblance to Nature, whatsoever. The gravity
concept at least resembles Nature in reverse, but the Rutherford -Bohr
atom has not even that virtue.
When we explain the true nature of electricity we will clearly
demonstrate that the familiar model of the atom, which shows electrons
moving in orbits of many intersecting planes around one centering
nucleus, is an utter impossibility in Nature. It defies every principle of the
electric current and the wave, and should, therefore, be relegated to pure
invention. It is difficult to describe the shocking effect such a concept
has upon an Illuminate who can "see" into the atomic or stellar systems
without microscope or telescope, while the outer-vision cannot even discern what holds matter together with twenty million dollar cyclotrons.
When you know Nature's working principle you will comprehend what a
shock it is to know that it is possible for an enlightened age to believe
that electrons in certain numbers revolve around inert gases. When you
know what the office of inert gases is in Nature you will be even more
shocked.
To exemplify our meaning let us remind you of the familiar belief that
magnetism is a force, separate and apart from electricity, which has the
power to pick up nails on a bar magnet and

Prelude—the Transformation of Man

103

tons of iron on a giant magnet. Scientific terminology is redundant with
references to such effects as magnetic lines of force, the earth's magnetic
field, and electro-magnetism, when every effect attributed to magnetism
is solely electric. Furthermore, there is no such separate force as
magnetism which performs the work of Creation. That which man thinks of
as a magnetic force is spiritual Light of Mind and not a physical working force of
Creation. Likewise, we hear constant references to negative electricity,
negative charge, and negatively charged particles, which are as impossible
in Nature as silent sound is impossible.
Perhaps the most fundamental of misconceptions is the Coulomb
electric law which says that opposites attract, and that gravitation also is a
force which pulls inward from within, and that it attracts other bodies,
when, in fact, both of these beliefs are just the opposite from the facts of
Nature upon which they were misconceived. Coupled with this unnatural
conception is the equally unnatural one to the effect that the universe
WAS CREATED about two billion years ago, and is now radiating its
energy away, instead of it BEING CREATED eternally. With that
concept there is no room for an "uphill flow of energy." There is but a
"downhill flow." Knowledge of the nature of electricity would quickly
dispel that idea that the universe itself is on its way to death. There are two
opposed

actions

to

every

electric

pulsation.

One

of

them

is

GENEROACTIVE, which multiplies compression. That is Nature's
"uphill flow," which charges. The other is RADIOACTIVE, which
multiplies expansion, and that is its "downhill flow," which discharges.
For this reason it is time that we begin to know the true nature of elec tricity and Magnetism, rather than theorize from what our senses tell us.
Figure 9 illustrates the modern conception of electricity which is not in
conformity with Nature.
When the true nature of electricity is comprehended it will then be
possible to comprehend why the Rutherford-Bohr atom concept is utterly
unlike Nature. You will gradually understand, that all Nature is based
upon the love principle which is ex-

104

ATOMIC SUICIDE?

pressed by giving and regiving. Nature never TAKES. The present concept
of gravity is based upon TAKING, for it supposedly pulls inward from
within itself. Nature does not work that way. Nature does not even
"absorb from within," nor are there inward explosions in Nature, nor is
there such a force as attraction or contraction. This seems to be an
amazing statement but it is a true one, nevertheless, as we shall see when
we go back to cause and are no longer deceived by the illusions of effect.
Man's concept of gravity as being an attractive force which pulls
inward from within, is diametrically opposed to the facts of Nature.
Gravity is the controlling center of a compressive electric force which is
exerted from the outside of matter instead of within it. As you gradually
understand the electric wave, and its enclosing cubic wave-field, and the
balance principle upon which all motion is based, you will have different
concepts in relation to attraction, contraction, absorption, balance and
the universal equilibrium. When you fully comprehend what the invisible
Light is, and the two divided lights are, you will also have a different
concept of matter.
With this necessary prelude finished we will now proceed to build true
concepts as a basis for your comprehension of God and His process for
creating the pairs of units of divided light in motion, which are known as
matter. So fully has science been deceived by the illusions of motion that
it has built up a great field of its own in the scientific world which is
commonly known as nuclear physics. As its name implies this concept is
based upon the belief that the atom is held together from its inside by a
nucleus, and that nucleus is composed of certain particles which act upon
each other in some mysterious and unexplained way to hold themselves
together and cause oppositely charged particles, known as electrons, to
revolve around them. These electrons supposedly revolve in shell-like
layers around the nucleus. By adding one more electron to each element
it becomes the next element in the series.
There are no particles, or groups of particles, which hold the atom
together as nuclei. Gravity does not work that way. All

Prelude—the Transformation of Man

105

creating matter is centered by holes of space except one element in each
octave. The Energy of Creation centers each hole. That centering, invisible,
omnipotent Energy is God's Mind and your Mind. Naturally you cannot see it, but
you can KNOW it, for it is your Identity, and your Intelligence. It is the Source of
your creations as it is the Source of all Creation. That is what Jesus meant when
He told man that the kingdom of heaven is within. That, also, is what He
meant when he said: "My Father and I are ONE."
The time has come in human history when all men must know exactly
what these teachings of the great Illuminate really meant. The time has
come when man's spiritual unfolding shall awaken the Light of genius,
Cosmic Consciousness and Christ Consciousness in all men. Man will
never know the happiness and peace of One World of Universal
Brotherhood until that day shall come.
The impossibility of a centering nucleus in the atom is because of the
fact that the atom is not pulled together from the inside, it is compressed together
from the outside. This is one more example of the deceptions which motion practices
upon those who look upon reflected effects with their outer-senses instead of upon the
cause of those effects with the inner-Mind.
As these lessons proceed we will take you right within the atom itself
so you can see every one of them as clearly as we see them. A ten-yearold boy could know the atom as familiarly as he knows his alphabet if he
but be made aware of the true nature of electricity, and its utterly simple
basic working principle, as so clearly demonstrated in the unknown wave
in which all the secrets of the universe are locked to the outer-vision of
man.

We Define God
I
God is Light. And God is Love. And God is inexorable Law.
God is the invisible, motionless, sexless, undivided and unconditioned
White Magnetic Light of Omnipotent, Omniscient and Omnipresent
Mind.
In all this universe of countless many things there is but One Light—
which is Mind of God—and the two extended lights of His thinking,
which His imagining created to manifest His Being in seeming action .
There is naught else in all Nature than God's knowing Mind at rest and
the motion of Mind-thinking.
God's knowing is Magnetic. God's thinking is electric.
God has but one IDEA, one DESIRE, one PURPOSE, one ACTION
and one LAW.
His one idea is His unity in Father-Mother Love. His one desire is to
think action, and rest from action, in sequential intervals. His one purpose
is to think His knowing of what He IS, and what He KNOWS, into His
own image. His one action is to give. His one law is that what He gives
must be balanced by equal regiving.
His Law of Balance is the law of Love upon which His universe is
founded, for God is Love—and the universe must reflect His image.
God's Magnetic Light universe is at rest. It is balanced.
God's electric universe must, likewise, be balanced in its rest, its
actions, and in its givings and regivings.
God's One Law of Balance must be as inexorably obeyed as that part
of it which is known as gravity, must be inexorably obeyed.
106

We Define God

107

To think what He IS, and what He KNOWS, into imaged-forms to
manifest Him by motion, God divides His still Magnetic Light into electric mate
pairs. He extends these pairs which He has divided, to two measured Magnetic foci
which He, likewise, extends to balance this division, and multiplies their power of
control over action to manifest His Omnipotence in the ratio of their extension.
The two Magnetic foci, which are Magnetic poles in man's knowing,
are extended from His fulcrum stillness, along wave paths of His eternal
stillness, to control their manifestation of His imaginings from within all
creating bodies, and to balance their separateness from without.
He, likewise, divides His Omnipresence by centering every particle of
creating matter in His whole limitless universe with the still Light of His
own PRESENCE. From each center where He thus stands, He reaches
out his right arm to one pole, and His left arm to the other one, to form a
shaft around which each separate unit of all Creation must move to
manifest the cycles of His thinking. In this manner each Mind -centered
body in all Creation has at its command, and as its inheritance, all -power
and all-knowledge to draw upon in the measure of man's desire, and in
the measure of the awareness of God's centering Presence within each
unit.
Aeons pass before aught but sensation—then instinct—makes bodies
aware of the centering Light of that Divine Presence. Long ages pass
before thinking and knowing transcend sensation and instinct. When
thinking begins, knowing also begins. More long ages pass before God's
ultimate

Creation—MAN—knows

of

his

divinity

through

full

comprehension of the whisperings of the Inner Silent Voice which
forever says to him: "What I am you also are."
II
God, the One Knower, becomes three by His imagining. The still Light
of the Knower, and the moving lights of His thinking, are the Trinity
which God is in all things in this universe.
God, the One Father-Mother divides His sexlessness to extend

108

ATOMIC SUICIDE?

FIG. 19 illustrates the entire process of creating—and recreating matter. The
Father-Mother electrically divides His ONENESS into pairs of father and
mother bodies. The electrical strain of separation is equaled by an opposite
strain, or tension, of desire for ONENESS. Unity thus attained is repeated in
similar electrically dividing and uniting pulsations, f orever.

ANOTHER WAY OF STATING THE SAME THING.
God, the Creator, divides His one white Light by extending its
ONENESS into electrical tensions of vibrating red and blue pairs. The
tensions of this electrical division are equaled by a desire for unity,
which is attained at the point of white incandescence in matter. Unity thus
attained is repeated forever by the same dividing, uniting process of
electrical action-reaction pulsations. Reproduction cannot take place
until the red and the blue lights of sex-divided motion are voided in the
still White Light of the Creator. Man alone, of all Creation, ever knows
of his Omniscience.

We Define God

109

father and mother bodies from His Oneness. The one desire of these separated
male and female particles, or masses, is to unite to void their separateness. Upon this
formula God's electric universe of motion is founded.
The sexless Father-Mother Creator is One. His extended sexconditioned, male and female bodies are the completion of His Trinity.
Rest and action are three. Space and matter are three. Equilibrium and
motion are three. Dimensions and pressures are three. The heartbeat of
the universe, and yours, are three. Likewise, its breathings and yours, its
temperatures and yours, and all things else of the universe, and you, are
three.
The swinging of the pendulum is three, as the spectrum and the
fulcrum and lever, also, are three.
The cathode is one—but its extended pairs of anodes in the electric current of man,
and of space, adds up to three.
Silence is one—but sound springs from silence when its divided
moving pair collide—so sound is three, and its vibrations in sequences of
rest and action, are also three.
God is ONE in all CAUSE—but in all EFFECT He is three. And all
that are three are nine—for all that are three are multiplied by three in
this visible cube dominated universe of three dimensions.
III
God decentrates His electric thinking to imagine idea. He then
concentrates to form a moving body-image of idea.
Mind-decentration and electrical-depolarization are one. Mind-concentration
and electrical-compression are, likewise, one. Generoactivity, compression and
polarization are also one. They constitute the life principle. Radioactivity,
expansion and depolarization are one. They constitute the death principle.
Man's Mind and God's Mind are ONE. Man's thinking and God's
thinking are ONE.
Man decentrates to conceive idea and concentrates to create a body in
the image of his idea, exactly as God does.
God's thinking is electrically expressed by extension from a

110

ATOMIC SUICIDE?

point of rest in space to a compressed point of rest in matter. It then
electrically expands to a point of rest in space to disappear into its
Source. This is God's way of dividing rest with action. It is also man's
way during all of his brief cycles—but when the rest interval for the
longest cycle comes he calls it death and the end, for man does not yet
know that God's ways, and man's, are ONE. Nor does he yet know that
he cannot die.
Man charges his batteries that way to give them life. He discharges
them to void their life—then recharges them. All bodies are batteries.
Growing bodies are charging batteries. Nature's bodies are charged
batteries. Discharging batteries are dying batteries. Discharged batteries
are like unto dead bodies. There is no life in them because there is no
motion. Nature forever recharges her bodies—beginning her charging in
their seed and discharging back to seed.
Life is motion. Death is rest. Each is fulcrum of the other. There is no
death in Nature, save man's belief in death.
God's Magnetic Light is eternal life. God's thinking is eternal life in
action, divided by rest. Life in matter is but a pulsing simulation of
eternal Life in God—the ONE.
IV
God's thinking is universal. His actions spring from His thinking,
therefore, God's actions are universal. Thoughts do not take place just
here, or there, where they begin. They are everywhere, and their beginning
and ending are one.
Actions, likewise, are as Omnipresent as their Source in Mind-thinking.
That which happens anywhere happens everywhere in this universe of
naught but. Mind-extension.
Idea has no extension, but idea, divided by imagining, extends into an
imaged infinity, and repeats its divisions like unto the infinity which the
kaleidoscope repeats, and multiplies its imaginings as it repeats.
When God thinks at any one point of rest in His universe, that point
becomes the center of an invisible cube of White Magnetic Light. From
there it is harmonically repeated as cube centers throughout His Cosmic
Kaleidoscope, at the rate of several hun-

We Define God

111

dred billions of cyclic pulsations every second. Their speed of extension
into this three dimensional illusion is about 186,400 miles per second.
Radical expansion of beginning points compress motion into cube
planes of rest in space. These are reflecting mirrors of Magnetic Light
which project God's thought-imaged forms onto His universal screen of
space to simulate a reality of existence where not anything is, not even
the motion which so convincingly seems to be there.
Invisible cubes of Magnetic Light, and of zero curvature, are the
boundings of wave-fields within which the curved universe of reflected
spherical forms are projected to constitute this electric thought-wave
universe of complex illusion.
God begins each electric thought-wave at a point of His White Light
at the intersection of the three inner planes of the cube, which are at
right angles to each other. This point of beginning is the wave fulcrum.
It is also the point of idea-conception in Mind. It is the centering eye of
the inert gas of the elements which springs from that plane. It is,
likewise, the cathode center of man's electric current and the beginning
of the wave-shaft which extends two ways to divide the red half of the
spectrum from the blue, to create separated father and mother bodies.
Here also is where time and all other dimensions begin, as well as all other
e f fects, such as life, compression, polarization and heat. Here also is where
all depolarizing dimensions and e f fects

The nine zeros which bound the three projection mirrors to cause the illusion of
a three dimensional universe.

112

ATOMIC SUICIDE?

UNFORTUNATELY THIS PAGE IS MISSING…

We Define God

113

FIG. 28
Every polarized action-reaction counts up to nine—never more—never
less. The wave octave formula for the elements of matter and the color
spectrum is nine—being eight, centered by zero, as follows:

or
0

1

2

3

4

5

6

7

8

9

0

upon which our decimal system is founded.
1. The total count of equators is nine.
2. The eight corners of the cube, and its centering zero, equal nine.
3. The eight sections of the divided cube, centered by zero, are
also nine.
4. The zeros upon each of the nine equators total nine, being eight
centered by zero.

114

ATOMIC SUICIDE?

center. One of its hemispheres, however, is still the red light of the father
and the other one is the blue light of the mother; for each is still
extended from its centering Oneness.
V
God's Magnetic cube is three, multiplied by three. Its planes of zero
curvature are nine, and its boundary angles are the eight corners and the
centering one of the fulcrum Source. Cube wave-fields are the eight
mirrors of Magnetic Light which project dimensioned and conditioned
forms to all the universe from one wave-field to another throughout all
Creation. Divided light opposes its division. Opposed pressures arise
from resistance to this division. Curvature arises from resistance to two way opposed motion. Resistance is gentle at cathode beginnings but
multiplies its resistance with cyclonic fury at anode endings. Here is
where gravity collisions of sex unions borns whirling, incandescent
carbon, silicon or suns, according to the measure of Mind-desire exerted
electrically at anode points.
Within the Magnetic cube of zero curvature a universe of opposed
curved-pressures is born. Each curved pressure within it is a lens to
multiply or divide, heat or freeze, compress or expand, solidify or
vaporize all pressures of motion which pass through its concavity or
convexity. In this manner God's curved universe of curved directions and
curved cellular forms appear upon His Cosmic screen for an interval to
simulate the many and the complex, and then disappear into His Oneness to rest for an interval
between thought-pulsation frequencies. Thus the cube,
which is the Oneness of all form, is imaged as the sphere in God's
imaged universe. The cube and the sphere are one. The sphere is an
incandescent cube, and the cube is a frozen sphere. The planes of the cube are
nine, and their projections into the spectrum of the incandescent sphere are
nine.
Frozen incandescent spheres of carbon become cubes. They image the
cube of their cold wave-field. Their wave position is
the only one of undivided balance in the wave, and all other positions
are unbalanced because of their separateness, but balanced with an
equally unbalanced mate. That is also why the

We Define God

115

very many moving particles in octave waves exhibit different qualities and
transient changing forms to which man gives so many names, not
knowing that one which he names this becomes that almost timelessly.
That is why heating, moving forms are curved and cellular, while cold
ones lose their curvature and reflect the planes of zero curvature of their
cube Source in space. Water drops are cellular when warmed above their
freezing points, but below that point they become hexagonal crystals to
reflect their positions in their cube wave. Vast complexities of crystal
forms thus arise from balanced and unbalanced matings, and from
separateness as well, such as the distorted cubes of copper or sodium
iodide, or the octahedrons and dodecahedrons of more dense elements
farther removed from wave amplitudes.
VI
God's Mind centers all things, all minerals, all vegetables, all animals, and every
cell which constitutes their bodies. He gives life and purposefulness to all things.
Bodies acquire awareness of purpose only through electrical messages of command from
Mind which centers them, for no body could otherwise move, survive or fulfill its
purpose without being centered and polarized by Mind. Cells, glands, white or red
corpuscles, hormones and other parts of bodies, must fulfill their
purposes. In themselves they are helpless to move or act their parts in
Nature's plan. Each part and each whole of all cell groups is centered by
the Intelligence which centers the whole structure, whether ant, violet or
man. Every creating particle of matter in the universe is a polarized
Mind-extension. When each particle disappears to rest for each pulsation
interval it withdraws within that Intelligence from which it extended as a
patterned form of idea.
Man is the consummate image of God's imagining, just as carbon is the
consummate element. It is not a part of God's intent that carbon should have
inner awareness of its divine origin and identity, but it is intended that man should
have. Mind and Soul centers every carbon crystal, never-the-less, or it
could not fulfill its purpose as part of the patterned body of tree or man.
In all this vast universe there is naught but Mind and thought-

116

ATOMIC SUICIDE?

motion. All motion is but an electric recording of the Mind-thought
which centers it. It is also the record of the idea it simulates. In the idea
is purpose of idea. In the electric recording, therefore, the mechanics of
idea, thought and purposefulness are lodged, otherwise The Creator
could not create.
God's universe is living, and is purposeful. Wherever there is motion,
there also is God commanding His thought-forms to fulfill their
purposes.
Know thou that God does not extend His Self into his moving
universe, for the God-Light is still. Its stillness centers all things —and
it, likewise, centers the shafts of all motion which turns around it, shafts
which are levers of fulcrums and end at poles which measure
extensions.
Naught exists but God. Man exists as ONE with God, but until he is aware of
his Oneness he is but a thought-recording image of God's imagining. Some day he
will know, however, for that is God's intent in creating Man. Know thou,
therefore, that motion merely simulates God's knowing, and God's
qualities, and the purposefulness of His divine drama of Creation. Simulations are not reality, however, nor do they exist. Imaginings come and
go. They change and have dimension. God's imaginings are not God,
however. The play cannot be the Playwright.
VII
When God, the Father-Mother, divided the Light of His sexless
Oneness into the red light of the father, and the blue light of the
mother, He ordained that the father light must penetrate the light of the
mother, and be forever within her womb to live, and without her womb
to die. Thus it is that the red fires which center our father of earth, lie
enfolded within the blue coolness of earth's crust, and the cooling blue
oceans and atmosphere of the encircling mother womb. Thus it is that
the compression of the mother womb generates heat to polarize and
vitalize the father seed of life which is enfolded in that womb. That
process of sex interchange between the blue and the red lights whi ch
beget life, continues to beget life to give back to its Source until the
mother can no longer compress life into the father, and the

We Define God

117

father can no longer discharge heat into the mother to continue to beget
father and mother bodies.
When this has come to pass both expand. The earth emerged from the
surrounding womb of the sun to cool and thus beget a father within her
pregnant womb, to continue God's one process of creating bodies until
both father and mother slowly depolarize by expansion of both, and both
continue their journey into the Magnetic cold from which they emerged.
Mother and father reverse their spectrum positions, however. The
womb of the mother is on the inside and the father surrounds it by a
ring, such as one sees in the Lyra Nebula. One can also see the birth of a
new star in the very center of that great black cathode hole which the
mother womb is. That is the way that God turns the anodes of His
thinking inside out to rest, and outside in to again become anodes. God 's
process of creating bodies through sex interchange is based upon the sex
urge of the divided color spectrum of light to void its color divisions and
become the White Light of rest from which its tensions were extended.
God is ONE—at eternal rest. Creation is TWO in the perpetual
tensions of motion. The divided two in action desire rest in Oneness.
They find rest by interchange, but lose it as they find it until they can
interchange no more. A long interval of rest in "death" then follows but
it is only an interval. It is just one black gap of the many rests between
actions of God's Cosmic cinema, which simulates the Idea of Creation
which He has imagined into seeming being. Life in Mind is eternally
existent. Life in matter eternally repeats its simulations of existence.
VIII
God is ONE. His Oneness is manifested in all things. His White Light
must be manifested in His universal image. The incandescent white light
of a sun center manifests the Oneness of its Source in the Magnetic
White Light of Mind.
Man is the consummate manifestation of God's imagining of His very
Self. God's image in man is not yet complete. The time will come to every
man when the Light which is God will be

118

ATOMIC SUICIDE?

known in every man. That White Light of God centers every man. Few
there are, or have ever been who know that Light within them, but all
men must eventually know that Light as their spiritual natures unfold.
God's Oneness is imaged in the elements of matter. Carbon is the
consummate element beyond which there is no possibility of extension,
even as the cube or sphere cannot possibly be extended. The suns of the
heavens are incandescent carbon. The still White Light of Mind centers
carbon and unites its male-female pair as ONE. All other elements are in
carbon and are incandescent in God's suns which are the seed for His
universal garden of living things. All things are always carbon when in candescent, no matter how they may be divided for enfoldment in the
womb of creating things to become a violet, a willow twig or body of
man. No matter what these may be their residue left over from white heat
is carbon—only carbon, the ONE THING of all matter. All things in
Nature spring from their patterned seed which is their concept in the
White Light of Mind. The seed is the Oneness of the uncountable many
which unfold from it and refold into it.
Likewise, all chemical elements of the octaves are red and blue lights
which are projected from the pure White Light of their inert gases, which
are their octave seed. They return to their invisible Oneness by
radioactive emanations which are pure White incandescent, microscopic
suns. Man calls them alpha, beta, gamma or helium rays as they emanate
from tungsten, actinium, radium or uranium at almost the speed of light.
Each of them is the seed for another body of its like kind, as suns are
seed for all bodies.
Not one complex creation of Nature can lose its Oneness. God
extended them from Him to be like unto Him in His image. Th e great
oak has many parts which multiply in number as they unfold from the
Oneness of their seed. Its countless parts take on dimension in length,
breadth and thickness which were dimensionless in their seed. It weighs
many tons and gives shade to many things while purposefully manifesting
God in action. When it refolds within its seed to rest, however, all of
these dimensions

We Define God

119

and multiplicity of parts disappear into the Oneness of its seed to regive
to their Source that which had been given to the tree. The tree is not
dead, however. What it has been it still is. No microscope of man can
find one electron of that tree within its seed, for if one could find what is
really there one would find God. The patterned tree is the image of
Mind-imagining. Mind-Light projected that image into space to manifest
Mind-imagining. Mind rested between its cycles of imagining and
withdrew the image into its equilibrium. Every unit of Creation unfolds and
refolds in that life-death manner. Nothing has happened to the Idea of the
tree. It eternally exists and will again unfold into action and again become
the imaged form of Mind-imagining in repeated sequences when
conditions of electric pressures are favorable for its reappearance. Even
though ten billion years pass, and this planet has journeyed beyond its
present pressure conditions, that tree will reappear on Venus, then on
Mercury, just as it long ago appeared and disappeared on Saturn and
Jupiter.
IX
God thinks in electric pulsations which are recorded in motion as four
pairs of rings which are compressed into spheres. Each cyclic pulsation is
manifested by the projection of four concentric light rings in one plane
from one point of Magnetic Mind-Light, in which the red half of the
spectrum is on the outside of the rings and the blue half on the inside.
These four rings are the seed of the octave wave and occupy that position
in the wave known as the zero group of the elements, or inert gases.
The wave is created by dividing the four sexless rings of the inert gases
into four pairs of oppositely sex-conditioned rings, and projecting them
toward sex mates of adjoining wave-fields to find balance and unity in
each other. God's concentrative thinking compresses these mate rings as
they are projected. This is the generoactive (uphill flow of energy)
principle which multiplies power and speed in the inverse ratio of the
cube, as they are thus centripetally projected, until the red and blue

120

ATOMIC SUICIDE?

pair of cyclonic vortices, thus resulting, collide at wave ampli tudes,
midway between the two zero cathodes from which they were projected.
This is the manner in which unbalanced and separated sexed pairs are
united into the Oneness of the two

Nature creates sex-conditioned bodies by polarizing an equilibrium
condition. Nature destroys bodies by depolarizing them. Nature repeats bodies
through interchange between their opposite conditions. All bodies are eternally
repeated.

We Define God

121

balanced and equal hemispheres of spherical incandescent suns.
Within the four zero rings of the wave is the cathode mother womb of
space which is seeking the outside to fulfill her office of borning the seed
of the father. To aid this process the four pairs of projecting rings
gradually close up their centering holes as the rings are compressed from
their cone bases toward their apices, where the collision of sex-mating
completes the closing in the incandescent sphere thus formed.
The wave shaft itself is the still God-Light of Mind which is like unto
the still eye of the cyclone at the polarized end of the cyclone shaft. The
true sphere thus formed marks the maturity of the imaged-form which is
completed at the junction point of eight cubes where the octave wave
ends at amplitude. This is where microscopic suns of almost timeless
duration are formed. Here also is where majestic suns of huge mass and
durations of billions of ages in duration are also formed, to function as
seed for borning of planets and lesser forms of God's imaginings. From
that point of maturity of such flaming carbon masses as our sun, God's
decentrative thinking causes these suns to project rings from the plane of
their equators in series of four which, likewise, compress into planets in
series of four. These, likewise, forever project rings in series of four until
all that God gave in light rings of His electric pulsings are regiven to the
four of their zero group as refolding records of that which has been unfolded.
Within this process lies the mystery of the seed and its growth as its
pattern unfolds, and the record of the pattern as it refolds. And as suns
throw off rings they oblate in like ratio and the holes come again as one
can see in the Dumbbell nebula which was once a mighty sun, or in
thousands of other ring formations throughout our heavens. See figures
30, 31, and 32.
God projects His thought-recording rings from the cathode zero, in
pairs along the wave shaft in planes of 90 degrees from it. Likewise, He
matures His thought-imaged form so that its equator is in a plane which
is 90 degrees from the wave axis.
The creator's atomic systems do not begin in the wave in ele ments
which are centered by holes. They begin only when cen-

122

ATOMIC SUICIDE?

FIG. 30. Illustrating the death principle in all matter. Spheres are created by
compressing rings to form them. Spheres are then disintegrated by projecting
rings from them until a black hole surrounds their axis of rotation and they
gradually expand until they eventually disappear into their cathodes.

trifugal force has multiplied sufficiently to throw off spiral arms and
rings from equators of matured suns. Until that time all forming
elements are centered by the gradually lessening cathode holes of the
mother womb until the invisible patterned seed of the inert gas becomes
the visible patterned body form of the seed image. During this entire
cycle the still Magnetic Light of the centering cathode is projecting rings
outwardly from it in pairs around a wave-shaft, to manifest the Love
principle of giving, while the compressed bodies thus formed are
exploding outwardly, likewise, to manifest the principle of re-giving.
The result may better be pictured by the tornado which every action in
Nature emulates. All electrical motion in the octave wave turns spirally
around centering, still Magnetic shafts, just as cyclones do. All electrical
compression begins by violent expansion to create a condition which
borns its opposite, as all opposites in Nature do. This effect is the answer
to the electrical engineer's question which asks WHY his electric -current
is only at the surface of his wires and cables, and not all through them,

We Define God

123

FIG. 31. All matter, from microscopic cells to majestic suns "unwind"
spirally, and centrifugally by ejecting rings from the planes of their
equators.

124

ATOMIC SUICIDE?

FIG. 32. The centering shaft, around which suns rotate, again compresses
another sun into its vortex to repeat the process until all its mass disappears as
rings. Lyra and Hydrae nebulae are good examples in the stellar system and
Saturn well exemplifies how planets in our solar system, disappear into their
zero.

We Define God

125

except at the points where loops of force count his impulse frequencies
for him. If it were possible for him to slice an electrical current into
sections he would find that each section would be a ring whirling around
a still center, except at points where collisions occur between the two
lights of the spectrum, which are so forcibly projected from cathode
zeros.
Thus it is that gravity is seemingly created to control the compressive
force of Nature and the regiving reaction of the creation of an expansive
force. Expansion is the result of MIND-DESIRE TO GIVE by its
outward explosive effect from its zero cathode. The re-giving of
compressed energy, likewise, is an outward explosive effect, as electric
compression ceases, and the result of that effect is to born its opposite
and leave great black holes within compressed masses as they return to
the zero of their Magnetic stillness.
Thus it is that God's Law of Love is manifested in every actionreaction of Nature. After long aeons of man's hard experiences in learning how to
manifest the Love principle in his dealings with other men, he will some day know his
own Oneness with God, and find happiness and peace which can only come to him by
having made that supreme discovery of his own divinity.
CONCLUSION
We have thus described the manner in which all creating bodies
"emerge from space" for an interval to fulfill their destined purposes, and
are then "swallowed up by space" to rest for an interval before again
emerging to continue the fulfillment of their purposes. God's one desire
to think action, and rest from action, in sequential intervals, is thus
fulfilled. Likewise, His one action of giving for regiving to manifest His
Love, is also fulfilled, together with His one motive for seemingly
dividing His unity into two desires for unity.
These are the qualities of God's imagining which He projects upon the
screen of His vast space in such rapid sequences of changing patterns
that the senses of man are deceived by seeing motion where no motion is.
Likewise, that which he sees as life

126

ATOMIC SUICIDE?

in living bodies and death in dying bodies, is but simulated motion to
simulate life. This universe of seeming motion is but an electric recording
of Mind-imaginings. God's one purpose, which is to think what He IS,
and what He KNOWS into His own image, is thus fulfilled. All of His
Creation is for the fulfilling of that one ideal. Man is the consummate
ideal of His

FIG. 33. Basis for structure of atomic, solar and stellar systems.

FIG. 34. Gyroscopic equators which unwind suns into rings by electric compression to
rewind into stellar systems.

We Define God

127

purpose, for man alone, of all His Creation, can become aware of his
Oneness with His Creator.

FIG. 35. Illustrating principle of construction of matter by the projection of
polar rings from cathodes to collide as anodes.

Man himself, however, is but still in the making. For long ages he has
been unaware of his Self because of building his body. The dawn of that
conscious awareness has at last come to man, though that stage also is in
its early beginnings. He is still so new in his spiritual unfolding that it is
difficult for him to forget his fight for body survival in his jungle days.
He has begun to listen to the Silent Voice within him, however, and is
gradually becoming aware of the Light of His Source.
Some there are, however, who hear that Voice with greater
understanding

than

others,

but

few

who

hear

with

complete

understanding. These have become more illumined with the Light of
Mind and their thinking has so far transcended their sensing that much of
God's Omniscience is already theirs.
Such a man was Jesus, the Nazarene, who fully knew His Oneness with
God: In Jesus God had fulfilled His complete desire for creating Man in
His own image and likeness. Jesus gave to man that which He was
commanded to give for man's uplift toward the Light, but man was not
able to bear that which Jesus told him. Man crucified Jesus for thus
claiming His divinity and for trying to convince men that they were like
unto God. Man still crucifies all who come to transform him from the

128

ATOMIC SUICIDE?

pagan and barbarian ways which still dominate man's relation to man.
God is a patient Father-Mother of man, however. The ages of time consumed in
creating man in His own image mean nothing to Him. In this respect God says to
man: "All men will come to Me in due time, but theirs is the agony of awaiting."

CHAPTER VI

The True Nature of Electricity and
Gravitation
I
Every effect of motion, whatsoever, in this universe is an electric effect.
Electric EFFECTS are multiple projections from One Magnetic Light
CAUSE. As there is no other force which creates this miracle of Creation
there can be no theory of motion, or of construction of matter, which is
outside of the electric process. This entire electric process is completely
demonstrated on just one cycle of the electric current. One cycle is the
centripetal journey of a pair of divided units from their zero cathode to its multiplied
amplitude, where pairs are united, and the return centrifugal journey to their cathode
for rest.
That is all there is to the creative process. That process is the same
whether in microcosmic or macrocosmic scale. There is not one process
for atoms and another for stellar systems. That same process is rep eated
in every action-reaction of Nature, whether it be the lifting of an eyelash
or the explosion of tons of dynamite —or whether it be one's breath
cycle, or casting a fish line into the sea. Our first step is to depict that
simple process which has no variation in Nature, whether its vibratory
frequencies are six billion frequencies per second or one frequency in
fifty billion years.
Nowhere in the electric current of Nature do we find any justification
for assuming that a material nucleus centers the spiral coils which
constitute the universe. Instead of that we find the opposite. Nature so
stoutly resists having the holes in her coils filled with density that she
generates a terrific heat to dem129

130

ATOMIC SUICIDE?

onstrate that resistance. That is how suns are made. Resistance to
compression generates a terrific heat, which cools as suns expand to holecentered rings, such as shown in the Dumbbell Nebula, Fig. 30.
The same thing will happen in your laboratory if you wind coils too
densely. Every electrical engineer knows that he is limited in the amount
of current he can send through a coil by the size of the hole he leaves in
it. If a physicist or electrical engineer places a solid core at the center of
his coils it will heat and polarize, but not strengthen the current: If he
places iron filings there they would not remain in the center, nor could
they be compelled to remain there. They would either line the inside of
the coil or extend to its poles. If they were tied there they would become
incandescent if the current was strong enough. That proves that the core of
electric motion is intensely resistant to any attempt to disturb its zero rest condition.
It also proves that Nature never creates material nuclei for her spiral
cyclones, which constitute the electric current or electric waves of
Nature. It also proves by the very fact of the heat which is generated
there, that it resists instead of attracts, for heat is the basis of all outward
explosion.
The entirety of this electric universe of motion is expressed in spirals.
Every spiral in Nature is centered by a hole. Every spiral is a continuity
of rings. All Nature is made up of spiral sections, or rings. The coils of
the laboratory are spirals. Every section of a laboratory coil is a ring with
a hole in it. Even if one puts a steel rod in the core to polarize its ends
there is still a hole of stillness within the rod, for the electric current
spirals the surface of the rod only.
There is no precedent in Nature, whatsoever, to justify Rutherford or
Bohr in assuming that the atom is centered by a material nucleus.
Likewise, Nature gives no precedent for concentric shells of satellites
revolving around primaries in eccentric orbits of many planes. Satellites
become eccentric, and their planes of revolution vary quite markedly
from the equatorial planes of their primaries, but they do not start that
way. They begin as

The True Nature of Electricity and Gravitation

131

rings thrown off from equators and gradually become off-center and offplane. The three rings of Saturn, in Fig. 32, illustrate this beginning. The
orbits of all planets and suns are rings with holes in them. The outer
satellites, which have wound up from rings, illustrate the progression of
rings on their journey to disappearance as motion. Anyone can prove by
the following very simple experiments that there is no justification for the
assumption of a nucleus in an atom, which is held together by some
mysterious Cosmic "glue"—the descriptive name given to it by eager
searchers:

1. Wind one hundred feet of copper wire into a circle and pass a
current through it, leaving a large hole in that ring. The moment you
bend the wire you also make the loops of force, which surround it, come
closer together within the hole, than outside of it. In other words you
make them radiate from a center instead of being parallel to each other.
Bear in mind that the loops of force which are spinning around the
wire are creating potential. There is no potential at all in the core of the
wire. That wire is an axis of gravity around which electric potential is
being multiplied. That potential is being multiplied by fast motion around
its stillness. In the gravity center of that 100 foot coil you will not feel an
easily measurable amount of heat resistance to the compression being
acted upon it.
2. Now wind that 100 feet of wire into eight rings. Those widely
separated loops of force, which spin around eight wires instead of one,
are reaching outward radially toward cold, and are reaching inward
radially toward heat at the-center of gravity, which centers your coil as
the eye of a cyclone centers its similarly spinning loops of force.
The inner rims of rings, which constitute those loops of force, are
coming closer together, which multiplies heat, potential and density,
because of the outward explosive resistance to that compression. Now
test the hole for heat and you can quite easily measure it. Also, test it for
potential and you will find that density increases in the direction of the
center, for resistance increases in that direction. Now, test it for polarity
and you will

132

ATOMIC SUICIDE?

find that a very thin needle on the end of a thread will seek two points of
stillness where gravity is being divided, and potential is being multiplied
at 90 degree angles from its axis.

3. Then do the same thing with sixteen rings, then thirty-two. You
still have a hole in the middle. You find that heat, potential, polarity and
density constantly increases as you make your spinning radial rings
smaller, by winding your coil with more and smaller turns.
If you now put a steel rod through those rings you will find that you
need two needles, instead of one, when you had but one ring. You will
find that as you extend your rings you also extend potential. Gravity
immediately divides into pairs when potential extends from its Magnetic
zero, and electric potential multiplies by so doing. Polarity is that effect
in Nature which is caused by dividing one point of Magnetic stillness into
pairs of still points. A zero shaft is thus produced around which
electricity spins its rings to create the electric potential, which is so
casually referred to as "matter."
You will also find that the steel rod has no current at its center, but only
at its surface, except where it is concentrated at its poles. If you now test
it for density, potential and heat you will find that each increases in the
direction of its center, which is exactly what you would find if you could
test the sun in the same way.

4. To make a more comprehensive test, and to also convince yourself
that the needles are seeking stillness in the eye of the electric cyclon e
which you have created, instead of being attracted there by an inward
pulling force, make a coil in the shape of two cones, base to base. If you
now try your needles you will find that it is impossible to make them seek
the center of any of its rings other than at its very extremities. If you try
to have one seek your central ring it will forcibly resist it. If you hold two
at that point, just a half inch apart, you will find that each one will
seemingly repel the other. They are not doing this, however. They are
each seeking a point of stillness which is maximum in gravity resistance
to the electric potential, which

The True Nature of Electricity and Gravitation

133

has multiplied to its maximum power of compression at that point.
Instead of being attracted there they are compressed there as they point
out the direction of increasing density and electric potential. This is
proof, also, that the effect upon the needles is an electric effect—not a
Magnetic one.
If you are not sufficiently convinced by this experiment make two
conical coils and put both apices together. If they could meet at a sharp
point you would need but one needle to find one common center of
gravity. If you now spread the cones apart and put some fine iron filings
there, you will find that they will gather together in a ball, and your
needle will point always in the direction of increasing density in that ball.
You need but one needle now, for two will do the same thing.
Now pull your cones apart far enough to elongate your sphere into a
spheroid. You can now use two needles, for you have again divided
gravity.
For a last convincing experiment, take your needles to the holes in the
bases of the coils. Turn the coils on end and lower one of the needles
where the potential is strong. You will find that the needle will follow the
gravity shaft and point directly toward the eye of the vortice, as indicated
in the cyclone diagrams in figures 51 and 52.
These familiar experiments should convince you that there can be no
nucleus to a mass which is being compressed into an unwilling and
resistant center. Where is there any evidence of a material group nuclei in
these atoms which you are thus creating?
It is necessary that you fully understand that all matter is explosive and that every
body of matter thus compressed against such resistance is desirous of exploding. Cold
alone imprisons matter into dense solids, liquids or gases.
The Scientific American recently published an article by Robert
Hofstader in which he said that individual units of matter might prove to
be merely rings spinning around an empty point, with maximum density
at that point and a decrease of density from the inside out.

134

ATOMIC SUICIDE?

The following drawing and the caption under it, are reproduced from
this article.

FIG. 35. "MESON THEORY suggests that the proton may actually consist
of a spinning 'bare nucleon' which is essentially a point, surrounded part of the
time by a rotating meson cloud."

You can see by the above that some modern thinkers are rising above
the illusions practiced upon them by Nature.
5. Try this experiment also. Pump air into a deflated tire. The more
you pump the more you compress. At first it is like having one turn of
wire around a big hole. The more you pump the greater the potential and
heat you create. The pressure you put into it desires to escape. It,
therefore, forms a dense ring inside the tire but your first thrusts of
pressure seek the outside of the rim in their desire to escape. The more
you compress, the greater the density, heat and potential. Its increase is
in the inward direction. Bear in mind the fact that you are compressing from the
outside inward. You are not attracting it from the inside. The inside is always
explosive.
One of the greatest causes which led to the assumption of an atomic
nucleus is the familiar spiral nebulae of the heavens. As you examine
them in these pages you will see a central sun in all of them, around
which suns and their planets are revolving like a pinwheel. These spiral
nebulae are all dying stellar systems, which do not become systems until
after the collision

The True Nature of Electricity and Gravitation

135

of octave pairs of rings at wave amplitudes. In other words an atom, such
as hydrogen, oxygen, nitrogen, aluminum or sodium is a single particle—
not a system. The radar principle of Nature determines its tonal wave
position. Each of these are rings around holes. Carbon is a system, for it
is a united pair which has reached maturity and must now begin to die by
throwing off the rings which made it what it was. Every sun you see is
flaming carbon. True it is, that it centers a system and appears to be its
nucleus, but it is not a nucleus which is holding its system, or itself,
together. It is a Cosmic powder keg which is doing its best to explode. It
cannot do this all at once for the cold of the zero universe will not let it.
It cools gradually and dies as it cools. There is no force of any nature
which holds it together by an inward pull. Nature does not attract, nor
does it repel. It compresses within a vacuum and the vacuum restores its
normality. Electricity creates tensions which the universal vacuum
releases from tension.
Figures 36 to 40 illustrate a basic fact of the electric current. As long as
the two dividing poles extend away from each other as they leave their
cathode to collide with an approaching pair, which has been extended
from the next cathode, speed of motion multiplies centripetally and
potential multiplies with it. This is what is meant by the Einstein
Equation of 1905, for that fast motion does multiply potential.
The moment the collision takes place and the two poles become one in
a spherical body, that moment there is a reversal of the entire pressure
principle. The acquirement of polar unity in one gravity center touches
off a reversal lever in Nature. The Cosmic clock spring has been fully
wound. Nov it must unwind. Instead of the collision of two approaching
poles the united one divides into two, which continue right through to
their opposite cathodes. It is as though two apices of cones meet to
create one center of gravity, then push on through each other until they
bore a hole right through the compressed sun or other body. See Fig. 30.
In so doing a body which has been compressed by increasingly fast
centripetal motion is expanded by increasingly fast centrifugal motion. As
potential increases by fast revolution

136

ATOMIC SUICIDE?

The supposition that gravity is a force which pulls inward from within is,
basically, the cause of the misconception of the nucleal atom. Instead of holding
matter together the nucleal suns of these systems have accumulated enough
heat, by multiplying it centripetally, to explode them centrifugally.

The True Nature of Electricity and Gravitation

137

The nebulae on these two pages undoubtedly influenced Rutherford and Bohr
in forming their conceptions of the nucleal atom. Lack of knowledge of the
nature of gravitation and the true nature of electricity, caused these
misconceptions.

138

ATOMIC SUICIDE?

around two approaching poles it, likewise, decreases by fast motion around
the hole being made by receding poles. The following is a heretofore
unknown basic principle of motion.
Everywhere in Nature life and growth are expressed by increasingly fast centripetal
motion, and death and decay are expressed by increasingly fast centrifugal motion.
In observing the opposite directions in which the arrows in the nebulae
diagrams point, do not be confused into thinking
that the many masses are turning in opposite directions. Every unit in all
of them turns in the one direction which is common to all Nature. The
opposite directions of the arrows indicate direction of increase and
decrease in electric potential, which is the way all things live and die.
Fig. 40 represents a nebula which has not yet reached maturity. It is
still being compressed toward a perfect sphere. It is a united pair but has
not "had any children" yet. An atomic, solar or stellar system is one
which has reached maturity as a united pair, and has begun to propagate
generations of "off-spring", which, in turn, have propagated generations
of their own. All atomic systems are discharging, depolarizing, expanding
systems. There are no polarizing, or charging systems in Nature.
Depolarization alone produces multiple systems. It is because of this fact
that the "expanding universe" theory deluded so many observers.
Figures 36, 37, 38 and 39 are old systems. Figures 38 and 39 are
excellent examples of the regeneration of new solar systems along the
expanding paths of dying suns. Their symmetry, and very noticeable
balanced rhythm, are very indicative of normal disintegration.
II
THE HEAVY PRICE OF SENSE-PERCEPTION
It is right here that all observers, from Newton to Einstein, have been
so grievously misled by the evidence of their senses. All of them have
believed in a force in Nature which pulls inward from within. Out of their
observations we have, in physics, a law covering the acceleration of
gravity, and mathematics to give

The True Nature of Electricity and Gravitation

139

ratios of the power of matter to attract matter, and many other
misconceptions. The very fact that a stone falls to the ground has built a
belief that gravity attracts it. Instead of that it is the density of electric potential
which causes the stone to seek its like pressure condition in motion.
The stone is densely wound up into a high potential, high melting point
state. It belongs in an electric pressure which has caused that state of
density, and it will seek it—not because it is attracted to it—but because the
vortices of compressing motion are pulling it that way. Every potential
state of pressure in this universe has its proper place in it, and it will seek
the current of motion which takes it there. Raindrops will fall to seek
equality of environment in the direction of gravity. Compression is the
cause of that fall, not gravity. Water vapor will rise to seek equality of
environment in the direction of space. When water vapor finds its equal
pressure it will float weightlessly, for weight is but the measure of
potential which is out of place. Matter which floats in equipotential
environments is weightless in respect to any other matter in the universe,
yet mathematicians spend much wasted time in calculating the weight of
this weightless planet.
SUMMARY
Gravity exerts no force, whatsoever, to either attract or repel. Gravity
is a shaft of Magnetic stillness which has been extended two ways from
zero in the cathode of the electric current, around which electric motion
can simulate the power—or energy—of its Magnetic zero center. Gravity
is motionless and changeless. A gravity shaft is a two-way extension of a
point in space where all the power in all the universe is existent, to a pair
of points around which motion turns to balance the power extended f rom
their centers. Electricity spins around these pairs of gravity points, as
they extend into shafts, to simulate that energy by motion, but the
simulation is not the reality. When each pair of gravity points meet as
ONE, gravity unifies and dual polarity ceases. The Magnetic stillness of
the cathode where division began is then repeated in matter.

140

ATOMIC SUICIDE?

CONCLUSION
The thoughts which the above is written to accentuate are: 1—that every effect in
Nature which observers have attributed to gravity and magnetism should rightly be
attributed to electric potential, and 2—that the center of any mass like the sun is a
center of maximum heat and pressure which is a violently explosive condition, not an
attractive one, for heat expands and violently desires to escape.
Tens of thousands of suns have exploded. They are called novas. Many
of them are conquered by the cold of space and re-imprisoned. The
greatest of these is known as the Crab Nebula. It is a very recent
explosion but a very spectacular one. A careful study of its movements
gives one a clear comprehension of that majestic battle which is
continually going on between the cold of space and the heat of its
resistance to its electrical division. These misleading effects in Nature
have held scientific progress back for too long already. Their correction
would be of incalculable value to present day progress.
III
The text books tell you that there are two kinds of electricity, a positive
kind and a negative opposite. Let us show you how impossible and
illogical this is, and how contrary it is to Nature's processes in the
construction of matter.
We again repeat the fact that electricity does only one thing—it divides
an equilibrium into EQUAL pairs and compresses them until they unite
to create an explosive condition around a still point of gravity. When that
purpose has been completed electricity slowly dies in all masses, until all
motion has ceased in them.
It does not require two forces to compress anything. If you wish to
compress air into your tire you compress it with a force exerted in one
direction, which is inward from the outside. The greater the force you
exert in that direction the greater the multiplication of resistant pressure
within your tire, as compared with the pressure outside of it. If you open
a valve the

The True Nature of Electricity and Gravitation

141

pressure within your tire will explode outward without the aid of another
kind of electricity to help it escape from its bondage. It will seek its
equilibrium level without another kind of force to help it. The universal
vacuum is that universal equilibrium level. Any departure from that state
in Nature's normalcy is a forced departure which causes a tension, or
strain. The zero universe is without tension or strain. All matter is
compressed motion. All compressed motion is explosive. It is in exactly the same
condition as your tire which you have compressed into a strained, tense
condition, from which it constantly exerts its own strength of desire to
escape into the universal equilibrium. This desire for outward explosion
is inherent in all matter. There is no desire in matter to hold itself
together with other matter.
We refer you back to figures 6 and 7 for further study. Note that the
zero one is free from tensions, and the other one is full of tensions from
which they can be freed only by generating enough heat to begin their
slow process of radiation, or decay.
It will help you to better comprehend our meaning if you stretch a
piece of elastic from its normal equilibrium condition of rest. It takes
force for you to stretch it but it will return to its normal condition
without need of another kind of force. In stretching the elastic you have
created strains and tensions of an abnormal condition. The zero universe
is balanced. Everything in Nature which becomes unbalanced by the
exertion of any force will eventually find balance in the Cosmic vacuum,
which is the one normal condition of space. It is also the CAUSE of all
EFFECT and the SOURCE of all ENERGY. If you fully comprehend
this, you can now solve that great mystery which great thinkers in science
thought to be insoluble—the mystery as to how matter emerges from
space and how space swallows it up again.
How was it that early investigators decided that there were two
opposite kinds of electricity instead of the one kind which produces
motion? It was because the two opposite conditions of living and dying—
growing

and

decaying—heating

and

cooling

—polarizing

and

depolarizing, and all other effects of motion, are expressed in seemingly
opposite directions by seemingly

142

ATOMIC SUICIDE?

opposite forces. There are no opposite directions, or opposite forces, however. There
are but divided sexes which exert the same force and in the same direction. The one
force is compression and the one direction is spiral. That which seems to be two are
one when they are united. They could not unite if they were pursuing opposite
directions, nor could they be one if they were opposites. One's senses are very
deceptive. They convincingly make one believe the very opposite of what
they manifest.
Early investigators did not take into account the fact that motion is a cosmic
abnormality which has been caused by a disturbance of stillness. The normal
condition of this universe is a rest condition. Motion is a created effect
which emerges from rest and returns to it. This universe of motion might
be likened to a quiet pool into which a stone has been thrown. The
normal quiet of the pool has been disturbed by a force. The normal quiet
will return without the aid of force. There is no opposite force which
causes the return to normal balance.
And so it is with life and death. They are two seemingly opposite
effects which emerge from the Creator's zero universe as a disturbance of
its vacuum by seemingly opposite pressures. So, also, are heat and sound.
But all of these which emerge by the application of force, return to their
normal rest condition without the aid of another kind of electric force, or
a change in their one universal spiral direction.
Let us be sure that you understand this vital fundamental of Nature
that has so grossly deceived the greatest minds of the centuries. We
return to the tire which you compressed into a very much higher pressure
than that of its environment. That pressure is held in the tire by a sealed
casing, but it is very difficult to entirely seal it against slow leaking from
some part of it.
Always remember that every action you perform causes motion—and
motion is electric—and electricity moves spirally—and that spirals are
always created in pairs. You cannot cut a section through any electric
current anywhere without producing rings which spin around holes. Try
it. Pass an electric current through an evacuated tube with sufficient air,
or vapor in it to aid visibility, and you will see the rings which electricity
creates.

The True Nature of Electricity and Gravitation

143

You will see them as rings of light spinning around black holes. Those
rings you see are divisions and extensions of the "ultimate particles" of
Creation, for there is no other form in Nature than opening and closing
rings. They are the basis, and the substance of all form. Whey they appear,
matter appears. When they disappear, matter disappears, and all effects of
matter with them, such as sound, color, heat, form, density and
dimension. See Fig. 41.
Once again we repeat that this universe of motion is entirely electric,
and there is no power, or quality, in electricity to pull inward from within.
Again we say—electricity does but one thing—it compresses to divide
into pairs for the purpose of creating a dense pressure condition known
as electric potential. This is done against the resistance of the universal
vacuum, which finally conquers every effort of electricity to simulate
cohesion.
The entire principle of the construction of matter is based upon
surrounding an area of rest in the omnipresent vacuum with four rings,
then in compressing the rings in divided and extended pairs until the
holes are eliminated and flaming carbon suns occupy the holes. Suns then
throw off rings in series of four until the holes return. Electricity cau ses
the compression and the zero vacuum is the expression of Mind -energy
which causes the expansion. This universe is a compression-expansion
pump. One end of its piston is in the eternal vacuum and the other end is
in the pressures of electric potential.
Remember, also, that every electric action, which is recorded in Nature,
like the growth of a tree, or throwing a stone in water, produces rings
with holes in them. The young tree starts that way, as a tube, but closes
its holes by compression, to become a solid, and every solid is a series of
ring layers which eventually open to let "space" in gradually, until space
becomes all and the tree disappears entirely into it. Cut your own body
into sections and you will find it is composed of rings around holes—
your chest—your skull—your bones, arteries, heart, windpipe, nerves and
every cell of your body. Electricity works that way. It tries to close up its
holes, but very few out of millions of effects suc-

144

ATOMIC SUICIDE?

FIG. 41. The lower diagram represents the beginning of matter in the inert
gases. The upper diagram represents the end of matter in flaming carbon
suns.

The True Nature of Electricity and Gravitation

145

ceed in doing so. Organic life has not one example of body building
which has succeeded in becoming a solid, not even the ivory of an
elephant's tusk. It is centered by a hole, and its cells are porous.
All Nature, everywhere, cries out its protest to such an unnatural and impossible
condition as the nucleal atom. Nature is cellular and cells are rings in sections. Also
every cell in Nature is a product of the union of four pairs of rings. Nature also
cries out its protest against such a concept as that of a cosmic "glue" of
some mysterious nature, which supposedly holds the atom together from
within a nucleus. Atoms are held together only by pressure from the outside and
sealed from the outside by cold. The inside of every atomic mass is a heat
generator and heat consumer. Atomic units have cold centers, but combined atomic masses have relatively hot centers, according to their
purpose and position. Its cells must be electrically conditioned to
maintain that heat, but no matter what the temperature is in any cell it
tends to expand it—not hold it together. Instead of being a glue it is an
explosive.
IV
It will be well to examine the reasoning process which led observers
and research workers to determine that there must be two kinds of
electricity. The idea of a universal vacuum never entered into the thinking
or reasoning of early observers of EFFECTS of motion. Lacking that
concept they lacked their first essential premise—the basic fact that
Creation is a product of MIND. Secondarily they conceived heat to be
the reality which caused motion, and considered cold to be just less heat,
instead of cold being the eternal uncreated CAUSE from which heat was
created as an effect. Instead of heat being the cause of motion the reverse
is the fact. Heat is the result of motion. Both are abnormal conditions in
this universe of rest.
Now it so happens that the early concept of electricity provided for a
one-way direction which compressed to multiply potential, which
simultaneously multiplied heat. The opposite flow was theoretical but
necessary, for there are two poles, and

146

ATOMIC SUICIDE?

two opposite conditions to every electrical effect. There is but one
direction to motion, however. This is a two-way opening and closing
universe, both of which are expressed in unchanging one-way direction.
The sex divided condition did not occur to these early observers. Such
an idea never entered their thinking. To them sex was a function of
organic life and most distinctly not a part of the atomic life of inorganic
matter. Nor did the spectrum red and blue divisions ever become a part
of their consideration. Nor did the idea of tensions ever enter into their
thinking in relation to electricity, the tension of the spectrum division
which desired unity by the disappearance of the colors of motion into the
Magnetic White Light of universal stillness, or the tensions of sex
division of Father-Motherhood into father and mother bodies which
desired unity in sexlessness. Nor did they take into consideration that the
two

opposites

of

compression

and

expansion

coincided

with

concentration and decentration—growth and decay—life and death—or
the polarization and depolarization principle.
Then, in the turn of the century, Rutherford and Bohr conceived the
idea of atomic construction as being based upon the firm belief in the
Coulomb law, which says that matter attracts oppositely "charged"
electrical matter, and repels similarly "charged" matter. Nothing could
seem more convincing, for one pole of a magnet seemingly "attracted" its
opposite and "repelled" its like. It never occurred to them that males and
females do not unite with their own sexes. If the sex idea, in relation to
electricity, had occurred to them there would never have been a Cou lomb
law, nor a nucleus in an atom. Nothing could be more convincing to
sense-reasoning than the very self-evident fact that there must be two
kinds of electricity—even if the electric current did run but one way, but
with an unproved suspicion that it ran two ways.
Much confusion has also been caused by the fact that the two poles
extended in opposite directions from their dividing cathode and
approached each other from opposite directions to form an anode. This
led to the belief in the opposite directions of the

The True Nature of Electricity and Gravitation

147

two kinds of electricity, one of which was assumed to attract and the other
to repel. The answer to this is that polarity is not motion. It is the stillness of
gravity which centers motion. It is the omnipresent zero. It, therefore, has no
direction. Motion is confined only to the electric rings which are forever
encircling gravity. Those rings have but one direction in their turnings
around their omnipresent gravity controls, but they cause two separate
effects. One of these effects is centripetal and the other is centrifugal.
Because of these two life-death effects the universe may be described as a
two-way opening and closing universe of but one direction.
Some new and important discoveries were made which proved that
there were two kinds of electricity. We will recite one of these discoveries
which clinched the belief in two kinds of electricity, one kind for each
way. You can read it for yourself more fully, if you choose, in the
Encyclopedia Britannica, under the heading of "Electronic Tube." It
reads as follows: "T. Edison observed the passage of electric current in
one direction from a hot filament to a cold metallic plate in an evacuated
enclosure, as if negative particles were emitted from the filament."
Let us see how this fact was misinterpreted. There was nothing in this
experiment which warranted the attention it received. The electric current
which Edison observed was the radiation from a heated condition seeking
an equilibrium. It did not need to be in an evacuated tube. It is the same
effect which your hand feels from the rays of the sun, or your body feels
from a hot stove in a room. It has always been known as radiant energy.
Radiation creates electric current. So does generation. One compresses,
the other expands, but it is the same electric current. Any movement of
any kind creates a two-way electric current, which traverses the whole
universe—even the movement of your little finger.
A hot iron at one end of a room and a block of ice at the other end will
cause an electrical current to flow both ways, until the iron, the ice and
the room are all equal in temperature. That will also happen if you put
two hot irons at opposite ends of a room. Warm water rising into cold
space creates an electric cur-

148

ATOMIC SUICIDE?

rent, but that does not mean that there is one kind of electricity to make
it rise, and another to make it fall. One might as reasonably say that there are
two kinds of water, the kind which rises and the kind which falls.
Such a claim is like saying that there is one kind of electricity which
makes a man live and another kind to make him die. Electricity is
centripetal when it multiplies its potential by increasing its speed, and it is
centrifugal when it decreases its potential, also by multiplying its speed.
Electricity is motion—any kind, or stage of motion. There cannot be
two kinds of electricity. There is but one kind of electricity but that one
kind multiplies its power to compress in the first half of its cycle and
divides that power in the second half. Much confusion is caused by
mistaking speed for high potential, and vise versa. For this reason it is
well to exemplify our meaning by the following example: To create matter
by the compression of four pairs of rings, projected from cathodes, the
speed of the current around its shaft of gravity multiplies constantly and
volume decreases as speed increases, until the collision takes place.
Simultaneously the speed of rotation of units in the current slows down
until the completed mass, after the collision, is its minimum. From that
point on every effect is in reverse. Revolution around the shaft of gravity
of each separate unit of the mass, including projections from it like
planets and satellites, become increasingly slower while rotation of each
mass upon its own shaft is increasingly faster. In this case speed results in
a lowering of potential and a vast increase in volume.
To exemplify: Mercury and the planets beyond it, revolve centrifugally
around their primary shaft of gravity in the sun with ever increasing
slowness, while the speed of rotation upon their own shafts increases so
greatly that they are rapidly disintegrated by their own increasing
centrifugal speed. This is a characteristic of every electrical effect,
whatsoever. It is the principle which we call life and growth, which
reverses itself to become death and decay.
Likewise, there are not two kinds of motion. Motion is the same kind,
whether fast or slow. Air is the same air, whether hot

The True Nature of Electricity and Gravitation

149

or cold. Motion makes believe it is many things and many substances, but
these are but many conditions of the same thing. In all this universe we have
but two basic fundamentals—rest and motion. Together these two are the
pulsating cinema which constitutes both Creator and Creation. As the
human intellect unfolds it gradually sees the universe thus simply, and
gradually becomes less confused as man becomes more aware of the
reality of Mind and less dependent upon motion.
V
An electrically charged body is still a charged body until the last vestige
of motion leaves it. Your car battery may be discharged to the last mile,
but as long as it can produce motion it is positively charged. You might
properly say that it is approaching a negative, or voided condition, but
one cannot properly say that a discharging body is negatively "charged"
under any condition. To use such terms as negative electricity or negative
charge, is equivalent to using such terms as silent sound or dead life. The
word negative means to negate—to void—to empty or become minus. To
charge means to be added to. It is not logical or proper to use a term
such as negative charge, which literally means added to by subtracting.
Electricity is the force used by the Creator to create bodies. Bodies are electrical
disturbances in a vacuum. Electricity causes those disturbances.
The principle of electronics is a miniature example of what electricity
does in a vacuum. A vacuum tube, with no electricity dividing it, is the
normal rest condition of the universe. See Fig. 6. Electricity emerges from
the omnipresent universe and disappears into it, as light appears and
disappears in a vacuum tube. Electricity ceases to be electricity when it
loses its power to move. When we speak of electric expansion it is in the
sense that it is weakening, just as we say of a man who still lives, that he
is dying. Electricity does not expand, nor is there a kind of electricity
which does expand. It merely weakens by becoming lower in potential
and speed.
When an electronic tube is evacuated it means that the electric

150

ATOMIC SUICIDE?

commotion and tensions which were in it have been pumped out of it,
leaving it in a zero state of rest. An electric current sent through it
records within it the patterns of motion which caused the electric current.
The vacuum condition insulates the new pattern of motion from any
other patterns of motion, which would otherwise occupy the tube. That
same pattern can be projected from that tube and repeat itself anywhere
in the universe. That tube is a correct miniature zero universe of stillness
which is creating a multiple universe of motion. If you will but study that
effect you will gain much of Nature's processes. The more that science
develops this principle of creating its own patterns by starting them from
zero without interference from other pressures and patterns, and then
multiplying them by gravity control within them, the more progress we
will make in the practically new science of electronics.
The practice of electronics will grow to enormous proportions as
electronic engineers begin to know more about electricity, and the
relation of its pressures to the Magnetic universe which controls those
pressures. That new science, though still in its infancy, has already made a
marked difference in human lives. It will continue to make a still greater
mark upon human destiny as it progresses. Its present handicap is its
inefficient tubes and projection apparatus. Not any of these have yet been
constructed upon the right principle decreed by Nature for maximum
efficiency. That will come, however, as electronic engineers know more
about the secrets of the wave, and the radar principle as it relates to the
geometry of space. Man progresses only in the ratio in which he acquires new
knowledge, and that comes slowly, for man is unwilling to discard old
concepts for new.
This is not the place for a more extended treatise upon this subject, but
we would recommend that each of you become more fully familiar with
the daily progress now made in electronics. The one great lesson that you
can now learn from electronics without being technical, is the fact that
whatever patterns you put into those tubes, in the way of sounds, pictures
or movements, comes out of them in the same patterns as those you put
into them. Let us fully explain our meaning in this respect. The

The True Nature of Electricity and Gravitation

151

sounds and motion you make do not go into the tube. It is not necessary
to tell you that, for you know that nothing goes into the tube but an
electric recording of the wave patterns, of light and sounds, of the events
which waves record. Now here comes your lesson. You can hear and see
what you put into that tube as many times as you wish to turn on the
current. That means that electricity is the receiving and recording
principle of Nature, while the zero universe is the broadcasting principle.
This brings us to a high point in this book where we should pause
for a moment and give deep thought to the realization that the Zero
invisible universe is the THINKING-MIND-ENERGYSOURCE of
Creation, and that all material bodies are but the recordings of
MIND-THINKING.
Should not every serious thinker readjust his life to seeking values
which lie within their Source, rather than to continue to seek them
in their shadows?
In other words, electricity compresses motion into seeming form and
effect. That is all it does, however. When that compressed motion is
released, to produce a sound for example, the sound expands into the
zero universe without the aid of any force, whatever. The fact that you
can hear the sound is because it is electrically reborn by being recompressed into the density of your body. Your electrically compressed
body is a receiving station for reborning the dying sound, just as a
cliffside is a receiving station for reborning the sound as an echo. An
electronic tube, and a cliffside, are alike in this respect. That also means
that all matter is but thought-recordings, for all matter is electric motion.
It necessarily follows that your body is but an electric thought-record of
your Mind-thinking, which is operating within the Cosmic vacuum tube
just as long as you can keep it electrically vitalized sufficiently to create
the image of you which your thinking is making.
That includes every creating thing, and its pattern, as being thought recordings which act for awhile then refold into little electronic t ubes,
which we call seeds, for intervals of rest. When we turn the electric current
on to those electronic tube seeds, we can see and hear the record all over
again, whether it be ourselves, a tree or a solar system. Is not that a
lesson in immortality?

152

ATOMIC SUICIDE?

Within the eternal electronic vacuum of Nature every thought and action
that has ever taken place during all time, lies enfolded there in non dimensional omnipresent space. That is one more lesson that the
electronic tube might clarify for you—the lesson of dimension.
Someday, during your spiritual unfolding of inner sensory perception
through meditation, you will become aware of the fact that dimension is
but an imagined effect. It might help you to take the first step in gaining
this awareness if you will but realize that when you look upon a fifty mile
expanse of land, building, people and events, you see it all within a
dimensionless pinpoint of space within your eye. The whole universe is
thus reducible to the non-dimension of Mind-knowing, which has caused
the imagined universe to be extended from its eternal zero, which never
exceeds zero in CAUSE, but seems to exceed it by dimension, in
EFFECT.
God did, in fact, create the universe in His image, but dimension is as much a part
of His imaginings as form and events are a part of it.
Yes, the above is a wonderful lesson for one who is mystified by the
vague idea of immortality, but a still greater lesson of universality awaits
deep meditation by you upon the thoughts given above.
You have wondered much about the unfolding of a tree, or a human
body, from its microscopic seed. Many years are consumed in that
process after you have put the seed in your own yard to generate an
electric current for again unfolding the record contained in that patterned
electronic tube. The electronic tube seeds of Nature have their film
patterns enfolded within them. Man has to carry the patterns for his
cinema separately, also his projection machine—whereas Nature's
projection machine is the womb of earth. It will always reproject the
patterned microscopic image into a three dimensional form if the condi tions for that projection are right ones.
Now give thought to the little electronic seed tube which is planted in
Africa, ten thousand miles away from your yard. Within that microscopic
seed a terrific conflict is being enfolded,