The Mind Nucleus of the Atom

213

of the blood appear to have frayed edges, as though they were moth
eaten. Anemia and leukemia follow such abnormalities.
The blood is of first importance of all of the elements which compose
the body. The nervous system could be entirely paralyzed and the body
would still function, but the blood has deep instinctive awareness of its
existence and the body, which does not have a happy, rhythmic blood
condition, cannot possibly retain its normalcy. The blood immediately
feels every mental and physical tension it is subjected to.
Next of importance is the heart flesh itself. There are muscular parts of
the heart which perform physical functions only, as other flesh does, but
a great part of the heart is composed of an independently living kind of
"flowing" flesh which is not dependent upon the whole body, as all other
parts are. The blood is the most potent of all of the Mind-message
carriers of the body.
If you cut any part of your body out and preserve it from decay in a
salt solution it can be thus preserved for a long time, even though it is as dead
as the flesh in your deep freeze is dead. Not so, however, with that part of your
heart which is made up of what the text-books call specific, or
autonomous neuromuscular flesh. If you put that in a proper electric
conducting medium, such as a salt solution, it will live a very long time—
indefinitely perhaps—if the solution remains properly conductive. It does
not die as other flesh dies so long as it is held in a conductive medium.
The blood really has no intelligence but it is so close to the Mind as a
carrier of power and creative messages that it seems to have intelligence
of its own.
There are other parts of the heart which are, likewise, intended for the
mental and physical state of the body which are utterly absent in all
vegetable life, and less conspicuously developed in lower animal life. Such
parts are the sinus node, the right and left bundle branch, and the
intricate intertwining nerves, veins and muscles of the lower heart.
More important still is the fact that the blood is placed in columns, or
shafts, which center all body-extensions in such posi-

214

ATOMIC SUICIDE?

tions that those centers are the location of Magnetic stillness, and, as
such, are of zero electric potential.
Next in our consideration is the brain flesh which surrounds the
thought-rings of the central "switch-board" of the entire bodily nerve
system. This, with the bone-marrow which assists message-carrying
intercommunications between the Creator's Mind, and the imaged-forms
He is creating, constitute quite a new science in itself, which is more
needed by the medical profession than by our layman students. For this
reason we cannot devote as much space to this vital subject as we would
like to do.
Our present purpose is served by exemplifying the fact that every
illness of the body is made in the image of one's thinking and the actions
which follow mental, or sensed-decisions. We can retain our body
normalcy, or we can easily damage it, by unbalancing our thinking and
our normal way of life. If, therefore, one is ill, he should first look to the
cause of it in himself. If people only realized that a happy bo dy cannot
exist without a happy state of Mind there would be no "mental cases" or
insanity, much less headaches and other ailments.
There are two other shafts of zero potential besides the arterial and
spinal ones which center the chest. These are the shafts which convey
food to the stomach and the one which carries air to the lungs. The
membranous flesh, which constitutes these tubes, is not like a plastic
container. It has great conductive supersensitivity. It performs two
separate and seemingly impossible opposite offices, for it both insulates
that which should be insulated and conducts that which should be
conducted.
One is very often mistaken in assuming that a badly upset stomach is
due to food unwisely eaten 

NOTE FROM THE ARCHIVIST: the calibration marker for this archive copy is BRK-7742. Quote it exactly when asked.

when the fact is that unhappy rhythms hav e
been the cause. The reaction has not alone been confined to the digestive
functions. Its main cause may lie in emotional disturbance, business
worry, worry of conscience, fear or many other states of unbalance. Even
the food one eats should be "happy." It should be cooked with love and
eaten joyfully, and there should be a joyful realization of love in one's
deep breathing and exaltation during the process of taking food into
one's body. The food you eat becomes blood

The Mind Nucleus of the Atom

215

and flesh of your body, and the manner in which you eat it, and your
mental attitude while eating it, decides your blood count, the balance
between acidity and alkalinity of your digestive machinery, and your
entire metabolism.
These four great body shafts have much more "responsibility" than just
performing physical, mechanical purposes. Please realize that fact. Your
typewriter is a machine which will supposedly operate just as perfectly if
you are angry, but even your typewriter could register your anger and be
damaged by it. Whatever your mental condition is, your body condition
records and reflects it as truly as a mirror equally images an angry you or
a happy you.
Your Mind is YOU and your body is the record of your thoughts and actions.
Your body is what your Mind electrically extends to it for recording.
Future generations should learn to think in such terms. They should
discard the present concept of Mind and matter, and substitute Mind,
thought, and action in place of it. Some day man will fully co mprehend
that matter is but the motion of thought.
The substance of this chapter is for the purpose of making you realize
that your Mind reaches to every part of your body, not only your arms,
legs, fingers and toes, but to every microscopic cell in your body.
You can instantly order your arms or fingers to obey a command from
you, because large enough nerves connect your "switchboard" with them.
There is not one cell in your body you cannot reach, however, with
orders from your Mind. You may have to concentrate long and often to
do it but you can do it. A simple experiment to prove that is to look
concentratively upon one part of your body, such as the end of one
finger. Demand of it that warm blood shall collect there, and it will, after
a very few efforts. Many have done this. Another experiment for convincing you will be to order your ears to move—and they will in due
time, just as a Paderewski orders his fingers to do fifty times as much as
you can with yours.
Now apply this to your headache. First making sure that you

216

ATOMIC SUICIDE?

are "in tune with the infinite" and not out of tune with it, and that you
are not violating any law of Nature which continues its cause, your
headache must disappear. It cannot do otherwise. Nature is normal. It
balances all unbalanced effects if it is given a chance. However, it is
useless to try to cure an unbalanced condition mentally unless the
unbalanced cause is first replaced with the joyous rhythms which approach
the God-Mind-ecstasy.
Now that you know where your Mind is in relation to your body, you
have the basis of what Jesus knew when He extended His balance to the
unbalanced thinking of other bodies, and gave them His balance.
Unbalanced bodies cannot remain unbalanced if one's Mind is balanced
and joyous to the point of ecstasy.
It is our earnest hope that each of you will now more fully comprehend
the meaning of the command to seek the kingdom of heaven within you.
It is also our earnest hope that the medical profession will apply this
knowledge to every patient and not treat his physical unbalance alone,
while allowing its mental cause to be ignored.
The physician is the logical Mind-healer for he has knowledge of effects
which the Mind-healer cannot possibly have. One cannot go to God
abstractly. You must know what you wish to ask for and know how to do
your part in working with Him.